https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Q1rkgYh6ms

current machine learning projects which
you're doing are absolute piece of
What I'm going to show you the project
which has never ever been developed or
showcased on the entire YouTube and this
is the enterprise level project. Most
machine learning projects which you do
are absolutely piece of A collab
notebook, some Titanic data set, some
production grade project, some MLOps
project and whatnot. And what you do,
you train a model, you get a fancy
accuracy score, you just try to make
them in a good folders, try to use some
sort of documentation into the code and
then you're done. And that's the
problem. Most of the companies who
builds real AI and ML products does not
really operates like that. And that's
not how you get hired. And in my
terminology is what you have built. It's
not a system. It's a screenshot project
that you screenshotted something and
then you showcase that thing. It's
definitely not a system. Let me show you
the truth. Companies do not even care
that what models you have trained on,
what models you have fine-tuned on,
etc., etc. They care if you can build a
pipeline that can scrape live data,
cleans it, feeds you to the model,
tracks cost and ships training data at
scale. And that's where the jobs are.
And now I have come with another great
enterprisegrade project that does not
only builds a model and then you can use
that to get a fancy accuracy score and
done. No, what we're going to do in this
project is build a system that prepares
the training data set which can be fed
into multiple tasks which is preparation
of a chatbot, preparation of a
summarization bot and etc etc. So we're
not building that how to build a
summarizer or chatbot. We're building a
system that can generate the quality
training data set which can be used for
training of those specific tasks.
Insane, right? And we'll be not doing
this literally. We'll be doing this into
fullblown enterprisegrade setting. I've
worked on enormous number of enterprise
grace projects and I know what they will
look like and I bet you have not seen
ever like this ever on entire YouTube on
how these enterprise grade level
projects are built and I have divided
this project into several 12 to 14 steps
and what every step does is following
and I am going to help you build from it
scratch step by step with a video
explanation as well as a written
explanation in a PDF format which has
been beautifully crafted just for you.
So what you learn into this entire
project? One is of course that you'll be
building a system that generates the
training data set for building tools
like chat bots, summarization tools,
etc. which is not so common project. But
more importantly, what you'll be
learning is Python architecture, how to
develop the asynchronous data pipelines,
prompt engineering at scale, real-time
monitoring, stream dashboards, error
handling like a professional, and really
how to develop something so scalable, so
defensive and an enterprisegrade setting
and much more. And you'll have finally
have a project where interviewer will
literally say that wait did you build
this? Because this has never been
produced entire on the internet. And
then you can just copy and paste the
entire framework which I have taught
into different other projects and build
your own enterpriseg grade project and
showcase that as one of the oneclass
project which one has ever developed.
Let's get started with this. Hello
everybody. So let's start off with the
first step and as I said this project
I've divided into several steps and I
want to go step by step and break down
every part of it super simply that
anybody could understand with the real
world examples. So the first step is
let's assume that you go to any places
right any factory or anywhere there's a
main entrance which is which is always
there in any factory right where
visitors comes in and you know there's a
big plate written written as a main
entrance over there so think of that as
the init.py so in in our project we have
some a file known as into the source
file the training data robo ine.py by
and that's what our starting point is.
We want to understand that where all
things initialized into this data
training data curation bot which is an
enterprise grade train data creation b
for LM training using certain tools. So
understand this in a way that when you
go to the Disneyland let's say when you
go to the Disneyland you just you don't
just walk into random buildings and then
take the rides and stuff like that.
First you go to the main entrance first.
Then there's a reception desk that tells
you okay what rides are available, what
rights are not available, what you can
do, what you can't. They give you a map
showing where everything is so they can
roam around it in the amusement park and
hell lot of things. Correct. So what we
usually do,
I'm just going to check. Yeah. So what
we usually do is that in.py is exactly
the same. What it does it gives you the
main entrance so that any enterprise
group that you first visit me I will
tell you what things are available into
me what am I what I'm doing what are the
rules what eventually this whole project
represents and everything so
so let's break down every bit of this
particular file because this file is
pretty important that you can also
replicate this into your the project is
the first one is that you this is a good
tendency to write about what the project
is about which is a welcome
documentation. The welcome documentation
means that any is even if you go to
Disneyland that you'll see a huge board
about that particular thing. Same way it
happens a huge sign that welcome to the
training data robo factory which is
training data curation board and then a
little bit about the description about
it. Now why does it really matter is it
tells about your particular project in a
way that nobody does and this is a
usually good sign to write about your
project as much as possible. So it's
like a welcome to the training data
robbo factory and it what it does it
tells the visitors who are coming to
your project that's saying that okay
this is a smart computer training data
and just like McDonald's or probably the
Disneyland would have something like
build those seats then once you once you
have the big sign about that particular
thing then you have those metadata now
information card what we do into that
like we know we should know that who all
people made this project, how to get
help if any if any anyone gets stuck
into that project, how we can cap, how
we can track different versions of this
project, etc., etc. when you update your
phone or when you add new features and
stuff like that. And that's what matters
when you actually look at the factory
meta data and that's what really means
the version, the author. You can also
write your name over here, the email and
the description about that particular
project. It is as simple you know all
these things really you know is very
very important in any enterpriseg grade
setting project because nobody does it
and my tendency is always to tell you
that okay what nobody does it which is
very simple but still so powerful at
today's world. Now we go to the next one
which is what we do. We bring all our
imports which is all our important parts
of our file into a tool which is
bringing all the tools so that you take
so that in Disneyland you go to
reception desk they tell you the
different different rides which are
available. You go to a restaurant they
tell you different different menus foods
options which are available. Right?
That's what you want to do. You want to
make this as a reception desk. Okay. It
knows everything which it has. For
example, in the course, we'll come to
one by one, but we have a settings,
which is the config file. And then in
settings, we have the um if you truly
see over here, which is the settings
where we inst instantiate. We'll come to
what these all these things means in a
bit. But we will import the we'll import
the uh settings which is core imports
which is very important because we are
also logging every step. We are logging
every step. Of course, we could have
used some simple logger, but I wanted to
have my own logger because that's that's
more accurate. I can apply any
customization. So, which is logging
where you can literally log anything
whether it's logging any completed
operations, failed operations and stuff
like that. Then we'll come to the code
more in detail later on. And then you
have training data board error. So, what
does it mean? First of all, settings
means the instruction manual tells our
robot how to work, which is what are the
settings do we have? Just like in any
account, you have the settings, right?
The same way it happens. We'll come to
those settings in a bit. And then you
have the logger. What it does, logger is
very simple. Logger actually is is is a
very simple. Logger actually is is is a notepad
uh that that that writes down what robot
is doing whether it's error any good
pass and stuff whatever it does it just
journals it down and then you have
training data bot error whatever bot we
are having it's an alarm system which
tells us when something goes wrong and
that is more important we'll go to these
divers into more detail later on but
this is the whole point
Now
in simple terms because I told you that
I written tons of examples there is one
instruction booklet like settings which
of which we have imported which is these
settings over here and then we have
imported where you might take about
notes what you're doing which is the
logging where you log every step we'll
look at it and if a pre breaks you need
to know the error system you need to
know what error eventually happen which
is the error system which is the
training data bot error which we have it
is that simple right and then once Once
you have these settings which is
settings what you're doing and then
probably anything alarm system what you
want to do is you want to bring the
actual robot to work and that's what we
do. So our train data robo over here is
our bot.py pie um where we have imported
this is like an actual part which is the
most important part is like our main
robot that does all the work for example
it's like bringing the factory manager
to the front desk so that it can we'll
come to what the training data robot
does but at every reception you have a
manager who works for you who are who's
there for you now when someone wants to
use your project or use your factory or
go to Disneyland they talk to this
robot. Now, what you should think of it
is whenever you're going to a
restaurant, you're asking for a manager,
you're calling customer service, getting
the main helper, going to the principal
office and meeting the principal. The
same way you come to this and then you
meet my training retailer robot. As
simple as that, right? And then you have
our most important stuff which is
because this guy is a manager. Manager
has people inside it and that's what we
call as a external modules which you're
going to import. Now what it is does
which is a specialized workers because
we as as I said we can load data who
read PDS file web load web loader PDF
loader like anything comes PDF converted
into training data anything given links
converted into web web to training data
for LLM anything who can worker who can
read text files worker and there's one
even in the manager you have the boss
who will decide which worker to use
which specialized let's say a user comes
and says here I have this PDF that's it
I have this file the unified loader will
figure out okay if you have a PDF I will
give it a PDF loader if you have a txt
file I'll give it a document flow loader
so it's like an hierarchical system
which I eventually tells us okay this is
what we want to do is a manager which is
a training first test and then train
robot tells unified loader that hey this
is the file which this guy is trying to
convert this into a data you can talk to
any of these three and then unified
loader gives to the right loader over
And then we have another loader which is
the task which is more specialized tasks
which is worker who makes questions and
answers. So once somebody loads the data
it gives to the another worker who can
generate questions and answers. Worker
who sort things into categories workers
who make short summaries about those
instances and the instruction sheets for
workers which is the task template and
how this should be done for all these
three workers. So I hope you're
understanding the whole thing. It's like
a team of agents talking really to each
a team of agents talking really to each other.
So I explained which is PDF loader is
running workers who really really good
at reading files. Web loader is worker
who's really good at reading websites,
document loader, who reads regular text
files regularly and it's unifi loader
which is a supervisor who decide which
workers should hand should handle each
job and then you have task creation
department which converts that loaded
document into actual substance and then
we have three different ways to do it QA
generator, classification generator and
summarization generator and then you
have just like I you have a supervisor
you have a task template into this case
the task table. We'll go to the each of
the methods step by step. What it does
is a recipe card that tells worker
exactly what to do and in what format.
So you have the entrance, you have the
guys, you provide the services which is
the task. Now what you need to do, you
need to provide them the support and
services, right? And that's what it
leads to. Another one. The decoder
client which we have over here is
nothing but the internet detector. It
just finds information from the websites
and that we are using the for this. So
we find information from the website and
then we have a text prep-processor. What
does text prep-processor means? It
converts those information into a very
nice looking text so that our um task
creators can actually understand it.
Then you have a quality evaluator which
truly understands that everything is
working fine enough. And then there's a
data set exporter which packages
everything and exports it for our
customers. Completely makes sense right
now. This is how I wanted you to
understand that how you can think of it
as a more managerial term.
So I hope it makes sense till this point
of time.
Perfect. Now we go to the next one which
Perfect. Now we go to the next one which is
let me just go to the our next page. Now
we come to the actual so now now you
need to showcase right at the first step
like a menu card that what customers can
buy. Now customer can buy the core part
of it which is the training they bought
the settings to to to write an alarm
system. What are the sources you can get
the data is these things. with a task
they can buy, they can do and with the
services which they can opt for like a
complete package. For example, the store
can have thousands and thousands of
things, but the front of it, there's a
big poster showing the featured toys and
the list only shows the main thing
customer usually want and you can ask
for other things, but these are the
popular ones and that's what we make it
customizable, right? So the reason why
we say that is because we have hundreds
and hundreds of functions and classes
and stuff like that which is hundreds
and hundreds of smaller codes inside our
factory. that this list which is out
here which is showcased to our public
API definition it should show the main
tools which is usually needed. Now if
someone says from train from training
data robot which is this folder's name
import the training robot they exactly
get what they want. So it's like a menu
that's a restaurant right and showing
the main delicious dish dishes and all
as simple as that to understand. So you
might be asking why do we really need
this reception desk and because I'm
spending a lot of time in explaining it
I want to make it very clear. So let's
say that you don't have this file. You
don't have this entrance point.
Customers would have to know exactly
where everything is. For example, I want
the robot from room 5 shell 4 box number
two. Super confusing. Now with this file
they can just come to this folder and
say that from this folder I want to just
import the training dair robo which can
do my task. And the reception desk will
give you that particular robot to work
on. That's right. So if you don't have a
robot, you do something from detail
robot.bot import training the robot from
robot.bot import training the robot from name.core.config.
You import something. But if you want to
use those things into any file, you just
import from t folder. You import
whatever you initialize all the things
which you want to sell these particular
tasks and all these classes. As simple
as that. So it's like you don't need to
add you don't need to the book for
building three flow 2 section C self
five in row three you just ask where's
my Harry Potter book and then you get it
and that's what all matters
so here we go now customer let's say a
customer arrives a factory with some PDF
file and txt file and they knock your
door the which is pretty much easily
importing like from data what you import
that particular robot out there right
you you import that particular robot
Now reception disc the file says okay
here's your main robot when customer
starts using that robot so it
initializes that particular robot they
create their own personal robot
assistant basically in instantiate the
class I don't want to go into python
details but they instantiate the class
and and you know what this is just an
example not written in the project they
give it some documents to read which is
bloadloadad documents we'll come to all
these features in a bit that how we have
built this and everything and then they
ask you to make the training data which
is the process documents which are tasks
which is there and then they export the
data set. As simple as that. It's like
ordering at McDonald's. You import, you
order a Big Mac, they make it for you
and then you there you get it. Pretty
simple, right?
And it's like building and and what this
is one of the most important design
patterns that people miss. It's like
building with Legos. Users don't need
how our factory works inside. They don't
they don't need to know how our factory
works that at this shell. No, come here
and ask me. I'll give it to you. We just
need to know what it can do. Like using
a microwave, you don't need to
understand electricity how it works.
Easy to change. Now let's say if you
improve a worker like making PDF floor
faster, customers don't need to change
anything. It just changes over there and
they're importing the same file and
everything. We are just going and
improving a worker. The code still works
the same way. You just going and
changing and everything remains a
consistent and it is easy to find
because everything is important is at
just one place. having your school
supplies in just one backpack and not
hunting around for things which you need
around. And the really cool part in this
is like magic trick. Customers think
that they're getting everything at one
place, but secretly we are going to have
many different different rooms to
collect all these pieces. And that's
what the magic piece is. Now it's like a
when a waiter takes your order at a
table, goes to the chicken, gets food
from the five different stations, brick
everything you want, right? You just to
see the final result. You don't see the
waiter doing all of this thing. So I
hope it makes sense. You don't I I I
hope it makes sense. This is super
important for you to know about it. I've
written some more exercises and I've
written imagine and I've written your
own exercise which you should follow
about it and think about what each robot
would do, how students use them or what
makes it easy for this particular fun
exercise. It's all on you do it by
yourself. We go to the next step which
is our so-called heart of our factory
robbo robot factory which is training
data robot in the next file. But I hope
this initialization file really makes
sense to you.
So we talked about our entrance gate
which is we prepared the entrance gate
for the people to come in. Now what
we're going to going to do is we are
going to build a factory manager right
so that we have the desk so that no
people can visit it. But now we want
them to meet our factory manager the big
boss who runs the entire operation. Now
if I if our factory was Disneyland,
let's understand this. If our factory
was Disneyland, the reception desk,
which is in.py, would be at the entrance
gate, but the factory manager would be
itself, the Walt Disney himself, the
person who makes all the magic happen.
Now the training data robo is the
smartest and most organized manager you
have ever seen. And that's what our aim
is to build is to build an amazing
smartest manager which you have ever
seen. As simple as that. So what the
file we're going to focus on is this
particular file which is bot.py.
Now what is this? What does this does?
It's pretty simple. Right?
It's pretty simple. Right? Now
over here
the manager which we create a class
first of all we need to create a manager
right and this is a training robot and
the class is main training robot. What
this does the class provides a highle
interface for loading documents from
various sources processing text with
each quality assessment and data set
creation export the five levels the four
levels which you talk about of loading
giving the processing and giving the
right way making sure that it's the
right data and exporting the data set in
a way that it should. So what we're
trying to do is this factory manager has
four main jobs just like our how a
school principal have a different
responsibilities loads the document
process the text into useful information
make sure everything is perfect and fine
and package the final products for the
customers so let's go step by step over
here I don't want to go too much in
detail but let's go step by step the
first one we import necessary libraries
which is async path and stuff like that
and I want to use this particular
document for to understand it better.
The asense the a async io is a super
fast assistant which is do do many
things at the same time and we'll see
that how this eventually helps. This is
a tool which you're going to use for it
and then you have path which is a GPS
for files. So we can find files on our
computer and then you have a typing
which is a label maker for example when
you are loading. So config is a
dictionary which contains a string over
here right and u then those are those
are typing which is from typing we
importing the dictionary type list type
optional union of two for two types any
types and stuff like that so what it
does it's a label which is the right
types of information of what your data
type of particular parameter is and then
you have uyu ID which is a name tag
maker so that if we have anything we
unique ID numbers and then of course
we're going to include our settings
because settings are the most important
part of anywhere and then we're going to
it writes down everything which is a get
logger basically the logger system which
you have developed which locks
everything which you're doing and then
training data bot error which is alarms
anything which alarm system which alerts
when things goes really in the wrong
when things goes really in the wrong direction.
So we have imported it and then what
we're going to do is we we're going to
import all the workers at one point.
First, we're going to import our unified
loader, right? We're going to import our
unified loader which loads all the
documents. Then we're going to import
our decoder client for web scraping.
Basically, it's like internet is
scraping out there. And then we're going
to import our AI client. We'll go to
each of these managers one by one later
in different steps. But we go to the AI
client and the Dakota client to go to ST
step by step and figure out those
details in a much better way. And then
we have an AI brain which is uh which is
AI brain which is AI client over here.
And then the task manager the work order
organizer to figure out okay where are
we going to give anything to them. Then
we have a text processor to process the
text whatever we have generated after
the task has been completed. Then we
have an evaluator to evaluate a
particular task and then we have a
storage where we manage our database and
export our data set in a way which is
the packages. So all these workers for
component imports we have imported this
from different different files. So if
you really go and see in from sources if
you come over here and sources we have
imported the unified lodo from decodo we
have imported the client which is the
decoder client right and you can see
that init.py so even the decodo has the
init.py so that you we don't even import
from here from this folder we just
import the entrance thing the interface
that we just import over here even in
sources you have any.py P you just
import we have already gathered
everything we just import from things
from here which is much easier easy to
find and we don't need to tell which
file contains what I hope it completely
makes sense so we put you can see how
simpler it makes and all these errors of
import errors comes and goes that's
that's and that's what the whole point
of inp for me to explain to you in that
particular idea.
Nice. Okay. So, what do we need to do?
What do we really need to do is the
following. We go to the next one which
is age import which is superhero as I
already explained to you. And you know
what? I'm a big fan of giving this which
is Captain America, Spider-Man, Iron
Man, Nicki Fury, the Hulk, Hawkeye, and
Ant-Man, right? Packages things
perfectly. Now we go to the next step
which is the birth of the factory
manager where we initialize every bit of
it which is the as you as you already
know I I don't want to go into pythonic
detail structures but where we
initialize every instances which is we
initialize our logger so that we can
create our own personal things personal
class instantiate that particular class
for us then we have config right we
initialize the components now for
initializing the components I'll I'll
I'll come back to that where we
initialize all the components as as you
can see that we are not even doing here.
We have a different because the we have
so many things to initialize. We are not
initializing there itself. We are
initializing here and then it
initializes all the components and then
says okay the training and then we log
our information which is training data
bot initialized successfully for it to
work right
then which is the component
initialization. Now what you can see
over here that we have initialized every
bit of it uh into a different um
um ob uh thing over here. Now there is
three special memory boxes which is self
documents which is over here which you
can see you know that that we
initializes all this for all our tasks.
Three special uh memory boxes. The first
one is self documents self dot data sets
and self dot jobs. Now what does this
do? I want I I I want you to understand
carefully. The document box which we
have over here is a filing cabinet for
all our homework which is it files
everything whatever we have and then the
assets box is trophy case which we have
completed and then we have jobs box
which is to-do list for all the jobs and
you will see that how eventually it
helps in other instances which will
work. And then if there's any vase if
there's anything it says it fails failed
to instantiate the bot components this
is the cause and then we continue with
that completely make sense. Now we go to
the first part of the sup one of the
superpower for the factory manager which
is load the documents asynchronously
which is parallelly right to do many
things at the same time. So load
documents is our another um superpower
over here. And what it does, it read
books literally from anywhere. It reads
information from anywhere, handles
multiple books at once and organizes
everything perfectly. Now how does this
work? Again, pretty simple. You see, I
don't want to go into too much of detail
of making sure that you understand
everything because you just copy and
paste with Jeopardy and understand it.
But it what it does eventually it loads
from different sources and then it
eventually gets you the right set of
understanding. Now
then we have I I I want you to go
through it in more detail but you can
see over here that we have a loader
which you have imported and we'll go to
that loader in a bit that self
self.loader it uses that self.loader
loader to load a directory of the check
if any source is a directory and load
from the directory itself or load a
single file or URL if there's a URL
which you give and we'll go to the the
loader when we go step by step but I
don't want to focus more on it I want
we'll we'll go to the functionalities of
all these loaders and how this is work
and stuff like that because this is a
worker and we'll go to the
implementation of the worker in the next
course of steps and then what we do we
store our documents whatever we have
created in our documents this particular
uh database out here uh whatever we have
taken out which which had loaded okay
and then what it does it logs that
particular thing and then if there is an
issue it says the failed to load the
documents we have another superpower
which is the process documents so once
you have the loaded documents what you
do is process those documents now what
does processing those documents means
processing those documents means is to
create those training data for you to
operate on which is nothing but use all
the documents if none is specified. Now
these are some default parameters,
right? Then you create a processing job.
Now processing job is also what we have
imported and we'll come to that what
this processing job means in a bit. But
you use the processing job and then you
process those number of n number of
documents and you will see that how
efficiently the code was written to even
process millions and millions of
documents in matter of no time right and
we'll go to each of the implementation
in a bit but I just want you to know
about it now all this processing what it
does it processes those documents pretty
simple right it gets all the documents
and chooses the tasks and then it
creates a work order basically a work
order for And then for each document as
task for each document and task for
example for each documents and task it
give the make them in chunks for the
each to basically cut in chunks and then
it uses an AI client of ours. It uses an
AI client of ours create a training
example using that chunk to create a
training data and then it creates a
training training example over here
right and then it applies the quality
filtering if enabled. As you can see,
the client that you're going to use is
this AI client and our task manager is
using this AI client, right? Completely
understandable, right? This is not
something super rocket science. It's
just that you really have to keep
yourself updated about what each task
manager because over here we're not
directly calling the AI client. Instead,
we're calling the task manager, which
we'll study about in a bit. What this
task manager does is executes this task
one by one and we'll go more and more in
detail for everything in a bit. And then
it applies the quality filtering and
then it creates that data set. We'll
also come to this data set. What does
this mean? Because this data set is a
particular format which your data set
will be stored at and then it stores the
data set updates the job status and
outputs the data and says processing
completed generated this much examples
as a logging file and then it packages
into everything as a single data.
So I hope it makes sense. Then we have
another one which is the call evaluate
data set. Evaluate data set is pretty
simple which is nothing but evaluate
data set gets a detailed report for you
and we'll come to those evaluation in in
a bit and overall scorings as well when
we study about what is the mechanism
where you using to evaluate the data set
and then you have the export data set
which exports the data set into a
particular file by contexting and saying
okay I want to take this particular data
set tell me what the data set ID is
which you have u stored
and then use those data set update the
data set format and data set will be
exported into a particular file.
exported into a particular file. Correct?
And then we have our another thing which
is the the manager's dashboard where he
sees like a report card where everything
which you can see what statistics and
status and that's how how we were able
to create a very nice stream dashboard
where we we were able to see everything
out there by using the statistics column
right statistic uh report. Now what does
this do is it prints out okay what are
the total number of documents what are
the total number of data sets for job
what is the qualities and everything out
there and we'll come come back to all of
this again so that you understand it
again but yeah these are these were the
few of the um things now you have the
most important which is you have other
statist count by type count by examples
which is not needed for you as of now
but then you have asynchronous which is
cleaning resources and closing
connections when you when you close your
Disneyland when you close your project.
So what it does it closes all the
database connections and we'll come to
what those database connection means.
Again we have imported all those aspects
out there.
Then what it does is
um sorry here we go. Yeah close loader
which closes all this load and decoded
client. It closes the remaining HTTP
clients AI client if it has a cleanup
methods and says okay I've closed this
particular operations
right perfect
now we have this particular thing which
is the async context manager entry async
so you can actually a center enter
center whenever you enter into the
particular thing and then a exit where
you whenever you want to clean up
anything where you just calling the
clean up at once.
the magic context manager which we which
I just explained you what it does what
you can do you can just async with as a
bot load documents process documents
export as simple as that and bot
automatically cleans up when they are
done with it right for example so which
is quick process with the convenience
methods which is loads the document
process the documents exports the data
that in a particular format by looking
at all these methods which is created
down the line by a convenience method
and that's what we call as a magic usage
magic method which is you just call that
asynchronously which is at one time and
then it awaits loads the document
processes it exports it and gives you
the final data set and this is what we
call as the express lane which is
oneclick magic one-click magic which is
crazily that you just call this method
And it does everything for you. You
don't have to do anything else apart
from it.
Right? So it was I know it was super
comprehensive. The factory manager I
know it is super overwhelming at times
but what it does the performance begins
where you create a bot which is your
personal assistant. You set up your
circus which is bot highest imports all
the initializes components. It gathers
the audience basically loads the
document and then it processes those
documents and exports that data set into
a particular format and it cleans it up
and goes back to home safely.
Now why this design is pretty genius and
why I really call this as the genius
design which is single responsibility.
The bot manages not does the work right?
It just manager as this word. Workers
are hired during setup and easy to
upgrade. It uses only four main methods
and just one to run you know single line
handle multiple jobs at the same time
and remembers everything for reports and
and remembers everything for reports and debugging.
Right. So let's say that you you have a
company which is trained customer
service and you have a data of customer
service manual. You just await the bot
to process those documents. You just say
okay I want these data set types. I want
you to evaluate it and if the report is
passed export that data set as simple as
that for you to do it. Now this is what
what we call it as a good managers don't
do everything. You just create a manager
which is more powerful which manages the
state. Async program is magic which is
handling multiple tasks at once and
always cleans up whenever you're done.
So by this you're not just able to
design better but also organize programs
work in teams with clear
responsibilities who is working on what
debug by understand data and scale
application for more and think
architecturally about complex systems
and the training data bot is the beating
heart of the entire system. It's not the
most complex component but it's the most
important system because it provides the
interface. It connects all the pieces
into a single workflow. And now I hope
that you understand it. Now what we will
do is we'll go ahead.
We have visited the reception desk. We
have met the factory manager. Now what
we do? We go to the most important room
which is the the blueprint department.
Now blueprint department is having all
the instructions for our entire robot
factory which is a step three which
we'll talk about now.
Perfect. So we go to the next step which
is step number three which is the
factory blueprints and I name it as a
code data models. So what does it mean?
It really means that we have visited the
reception desk. We have met the factory
manager who does everything. Now what we
need to do is we need to visit the most
important room into the entire factory
which is like the blueprint department.
So I want you to think in a way that
let's say that you're building some Lego
sets and what you need is you need
instruction booklets that show you
exactly what pieces to use and how to
connect them like a blueprint or
architecture that okay this is how this
is what these kind of cards mean this is
what that kind of cards mean this is the
instruction booklets etc etc etc. Now
that is what is our models.py this
particular file really means that what
it does it defines the core data models
for this. So what are data models? Let's
try to understand a little bit more in
depth. So data models are nothing but
the recipe cards that tell your computer
or our computer exactly what information
should look like just like how you are
ch how a chocolate chip cookie recipe
tells you. For example, the two cups of
flour, not three, not one, exactly two,
one egg, one cup chocolate chips, all
that thing. So, it's like a recipe card
which is out there which tells you what
information should look like. For
example, if I can tell you PDF should
look like PDF, docs should be docs, txt
should be in txt format. The available
class type is Q&amp;A generation should look
like a QA generation and all that. So,
it defines what information should look
like and exactly how it should look
like and exactly how it should look like.
For example, see it says that a
particular document might be of any one
of these ways or any one of these
formats. A particular task type might be
of any one of these. The quality matrix
might be any one of these etc. So what
does it mean? A document must have a
title, content and source. A training
example must have an input text and an
output text and every piece of data must
have a unique ID and creation date. So
that's what it entirely means. So let's
go ahead. So basically what we're doing
is we are defining the data structures
which will be used throughout this
application and this is such an
important thing that and this is what is
usually nobody teaches it and usually
done in enterprise grade applications is
you define all the pyentic models for
all the data structures which is going
to be used in the entire document. For
example, we'll be uploading the document
and document might be of certain types
etc etc etc. So let's go step by step
and worry about the classes. The first
which is the master template the
foundation anywhere we start just
remember it's the foundation which is
the master blueprint which is base class
for all entities with the common field
the UID the UA uyu ID which we have
which we have imported the unique ID for
every field where it is created at when
it is updated at and what is the
metadata associated with it and then you
so so that's what is there and Now I
want you to understand another one which
is the imagine you have thousand toy
robots in a factory. How to keep track
of them is the old messy way. Hey
where's the red robot I made yesterday?
Which robot? We have 50 red robots etc
etc. So that's why we have this
particular thing which is just uh sorry
I'm not really okay
the one which I built after lunch. I
don't remember what you had for lunch.
That's why we do this of the superass is
what does it mean the smart base entity
way would be that every robot gets a
unique ID every robot gets a birth time
stamp and every robot has their own
metadata which is out here and then
which is color red etc etc now you can
find any robot instantly by using these
entities right
so then we have our another one which is
enums now what does it mean is just like
how your school Library sorts books into
categories like friction, science and
industry. Our factory model actually
will sort everything into clear
categories PDFs, documents, txt file,
memd file, HTML, JSON, CSV and URL.
Then we so as you can see over here that
we are also supporting URL over here
because we have used decoder over here
which is decoder integrations. Now what
you can do, you can give us any website
URL and we'll automatically extract the
content for the training data. That's
insanely powerful.
So what jobs can our robots do? So
that's what I say. These are the
available job types. For example, you
can do Q&amp;A generation sort of data,
classification sort of data,
summarization, named entity recognition,
red teaming, instruction response and
etc. So what you do you go ahead and you
tell your robot that listen dude I just
want you want want you to read this
Wikipedia pages about dinosaurs and make
five questions about it. What does robot
is? Okay, got it. This is a Q&amp;A
generation task with a URL input and
that's what we talk about the core data
models, right? What we are doing is we
are defining some sort of data
structures for our application which
will be used throughout the space. Then
we have how can we check if the work is
good? Then you have these parameters or
data structures to check it is good.
Toxicity, bias, diversity, corance and
relevance. All these are the quality
assessment matrix which we have used
over here.
For example,
I would like to make you understand in
that way
sometimes. Yeah. So let's say like how
your teacher grades essay on different
things like spelling, grammar,
activities, staying on the topic, the
robot checks on in the same way. Then we
have the document family which is our
input data. Now document family if I
could truly show you. Okay, here we go.
Which is the document model. what should
be our our source document which which
is going to come in the title the
content what is the source whether it's
a PDF URL and stuff like that what is
the doc type was language encoding the
size the word count and the character
count all these things should represent
the model so
and then we have extraction method the
processing time it took to do it etc etc
etc so let's say we have this scraped
metadata that what information we have
scraped from it for example the website
title and description when it was last
updated what type of content and all of
this using decodo integration API
and then we have text chunk which is
represents a chunk of text from the
document where that chunk is then
converted into Q&amp;A by using our AI
client which we'll come to that in a bit
so you can see that we have the document
ID the contents start index end index
chunk index token account the context
preceding context the following context
text and embeddings associated towards
it etc etc etc. Now you can also see
that we also include something source
URL what is does an original URL if it
is from the web that of course then we
have the task template and that what
this task template does is what sort of
task which is what sort of task or work
instructions has to be given like how
the recipe card should look like. So you
can see over here
that the name what is the task type the
description what is the prompt
associated with the classification and Q
generation was of task if there's task
specific configuration which we need to
do the parameters what is the quality
output length max output length quality
thresholds timeout max retries etc etc
all these parameters which will be given
to a model itself now we now which is an
AI provider which uses AI which is the
AI provider which uses AI which is the cloud
over here and then how much each
training example cost to generate those
things etc etc etc. Then we have a
training example. The training example
which comes over here a single training
example which is input text, output
text, the task type and then you have
all these things to source it. The
quality assessment parameters and
additional fields for different formats.
You can either remove it, add it does
not really matters but how does it
really matter is you're defining a data
structure with the training example and
they should the data structure usually
have this for for example I want to
think in one sense just go to list data
structure. Right now when you go to list
data structure in Python Python doc so
let's just go there
when you go here you have multiple
things multiple methods inside it and
list certainly has some of the some some
of the uh required thing which needs to
be given for example list over here in
the bracket you put it so list is a data
structure just like that training
example is our data structure and simple
reason we're doing this is nothing but
to really really when whenever you use
it this particular video you'll be
seeing that we'll be using heavily all
of these things we'll be using it there
in the further steps so a data set which
is a collection of a training example
what makes a data set a data set where
you put the content the statistics what
should be the idle split how you should
export it in a particular format and
then you calculate the total number of
examples correct so all of this and you
know what I have done other things as
well which I want you to figure it out
all those data structures by your own as
well because I just don't want to keep
on telling you but yeah this is all we
are doing and then of course you we have
prepared the
other thing as well but what I want to
show you is you can go to pro quality
reports the processing job models all
these projection config the file
information and other utility models out
here which I want you to explore by your
own you can use GPT to truly understand
every line of code because I don't
really really appreciate now going in
too much of coding details and just need
to get the gist of what I'm talking
about so let's follow a drill For
example, so this is your source URL
which is a Wikipedia artificial
intelligence. What a system does it
creates a document. Now document you can
literally call the document data
structure. So you can see over here that
document and sorry we just got a little
down. Okay. So document will have its
own title, the content, the source, the
document type, word count and script and
a data which is scraped from it. Right?
Then what you do? You do have the text
chunk and the text chunk gets a split
document gets split into chunks which is
the text chunk the data structure you
give the document id document do ID
because you get the particular unique ID
for that the content associated with it
the chunk index etc then you use the
training example the trust generation
where it generates the right set of task
and it's a complete data journey which
goes in throughout the end which is the
data set creation so it's a complete
database structure data architecture for
our data training data factory. And what
does this do is these blueprints ensure
every piece of data which you're going
to create is a consistent structure. The
quality is tracked at every step. The
costs are monitored for budget control
and web sources are remembered for
prevenence and analytics which is
possible with the rich meta data. Now
this is a blueprint. This is how it
should look like. This is how the
document should look like. This is how
the data set should look like. This is
how the processing should should look
like. Now what we do is we will see that
how we can actually load and process
these documents through our highway
system. So let's let's work on the step
number four. But what I want to talk
about is the most important thing. We
have studied from basic concept which is
init which initializes everything. Then
we talk about blueprint. Then we talk
about the the training the main factory
which eventually like a workflow. And
this we end we end this step three with
the blueprint is good good blueprint
makes great buildings. Our data models
makes great training data because of
these particular reasons.
I hope it makes sense. Now we come to
our other part which is the document
highway system which is an amazing where
we actually go ahead and load and stuff
and work around our model actually. So
now what we'll do is we'll go to step
number four which is the document
highway system that how do we really
load our documents whether it's in form
of PDF URL and stuff like that. So you
remember our amazing robot factory
journey right? We have seen the
reception desk. We have seen the factory
manager. We have learned about the blue
blueprints. Now it's time to visit the
document highway system that the super
smart transportation network that brings
all kinds of documents into just one
factory. So think of it like this that
you imagine you're running a pizza
restaurant that delivers to anywhere in
the world. You need trucks for local to
delivery, ships for overseas, planes for
fast delivery and special refrigerated
vehicles for frozen visas. Now what you
going to build a pipeline that is like
having one smart dispatch center that
automatically picks the right vehicle
for every delivery. For example, you you
have the a pipeline which say okay this
is a text PDF file, this is a website,
this is a text file, this is
spreadsheets and many more. We're using
this decoder professional web scraping
API again integration while where you
can literally scrape any content from
any website in the world. Just give us a
URL and we'll extract the docu the
content for you.
So the amazing part you don't need to
tell it what exactly the document you're
giving. It figures out automatically and
handles it perfectly and that's what is
needed. You don't need to tell what is
going to come. So let's go to our code.
go to the sources file and go to unified
because these are other documents and um
what I want to do is I want to go I want
to let you go to unified loader and
imports all the necessary libraries
which we'll come to in a bit but we have
a base loader what is base loader does
like you know what all this you can go
to the base.py PI and base loader is
nothing but the abstract abstraction of
how all the document loaders look like
like inheriting the base class like this
is the base class like just like the
foundation right that this is how it
should look like it should have a load
single method it should have a load
multiple method and stuff like that load
stream and other others method you can
overwrite it and everything so I don't
want to get again Pythonic explaining
you all this but they basic Basically we
have an abstraction layer which you
build on top of it. So unified one where
we we inherit those and then you can see
over here that we are writing the load
single part of this particular class etc
etc etc. So you have this unified
loader. I don't want to again get into
too much of code coding base but what
what what we are saying is we initialize
any subloaders which is document loader
and then we have PDF loader and if
there's a decoder client if the decoder
APIs and stuff like that available then
you load the web loader and then you say
unified loader is using shed this out
there right
there right so
uh we go to the next
Now you can see over here that we have
also more sub supported formats from a
subloader and then we take out the
document type which is basically the
list of whatever the documents were
supported all the supported from the do
loaders which we have. So how this works
actually that your old confusing f would
be okay I have a PDF file okay use the
PDF file I have a website okay use the
web loader I have a word document m
which loader should I use the smart
unified loader way what it does I have
some document or website URL no problem
I'll figure it out automatically and
that's how it is so powerful so I want
you to go to over here which is nothing
but um
but um our
our um
how it figures out those document
basically the document detective process
and it is pretty simple if you truly see
over here which is select loader which
is select the appropriate loader for the
given source which is the source file
whatever the source file it may so if it
is a handle if the instance is starts
with http and stuff like that it is a
web loader if it is handle file path if
gets a file extension and then return to
appropriate the doc type is document PDF
you say poke a pdf loader if the doc
pipe is getting into this then you
return a formal document loader. So this
is how it is automatically figuring out
that what it needs to and how it needs
to do right and now and you can see is
it a file what type of file and then you
automatically fix it up then we have our
star player which is the web web loader
which is web loader what you're doing is
amazing stuff you're not using a bright
data because again all these things
really does doesn't really make sense
now what this does is loads for the web
content from URLs using Dakota's
professional scraping service API,
right? And it's so powerful. I don't
want to get in too much of detail right
now, but it's so powerful that it in it
has an amazing ways of scraping it
professionally using the APIs.
Intelligent fallback to basic scraping
if it doesn't work. the JavaScript
rendering and dynamic content which is
again super great
and then we have this bypass any bot
detection comes in rate limiting or
clean text extraction from any website
in your particular format.
So let's start let's spend a little bit
of time into actually talking about this
particular thing right and I want you to
which is this is a professional web
scraper which we have built and and you
know what this is the crazy thing which
we have built out here so I I I don't
want to get into too much of coding
again but we initialize the web loader
with a decoder integration which we have
added and again I need you to do all
this so you'll be having a PDF document
basically which PDF document explains
what things which you need to do and
also you can come to the readme.md and
readme.md tells you everything which
needs to be done what are the env things
which you have to add the APIs and stuff
like that which you have to add over
here so that which you can use it
successfully all and the code is super
simple you can just take their APIs from
their website that's super simple if I
can do it then why not you so
the supported formats if it is there
then document type URL because that's
what we we are dealing with and then You
initialize the decoder client and which
you use use decodo which is the client
which it passes over here and of course
it'll be using this and then will pass
something a client of decodo. Now if the
self use decoder is equals to true then
what we do we say okay web decoder
initialized as a professional client
failed to initialize then if if there's
an error then web loader will use a
fallback scraping right as simple as
that and then the use decoder will
become to false. So if the decode
integration is not working it it it goes
to a fallback options. Now fallback
option I want to talk about that as well
which is which I'm going to go which
fetch with fallback. If the fallback is
not there then it just uses simple sort
of you know uh simple basic sort of
extraction uh using the basic HTTP
scraping as simple as that doesn't
really help but if the decoder is not
working it just falls back so that it
can continue to do some work. Now if
there is the if self is with self do and
decoder client and it's a initialize
with decoder professional scraping API
that's it now this is the web loader
which I'm talking about let's go step by
step of what eventually happens at every
point the real website so let's assume
that you have this machine learning
Wikipedia pages what you do the unified
loader will load the single so basically
you can see that we have we also have
the load single method out here and what
this load single method does if the
instant does not start with that then
you say it's an invalid URL but if it
starts you log that particular context
and then you say the load URL the URL is
this the method is decoder and if the
method is not decoder then say okay this
is a fallback like a logging thing which
is formal which you're doing now if the
self do use decoder and self.client
client then fetch with decoder. So if
self decoder is true and then you also
have the self. Dakota client is there
then what you do you fetch using
decoder. If that is not you use the
fetch with fallback. So let's go to this
particular statement which is the fetch
with decoder. Now what does fetch with
decoder means that you give the setup
you give all these decoders parameters
and decoder was once used to be called
as smart proxy but this decoder
parameters what it does is scrape those
parameters which is the scrape the
parameters which you need the target the
local which what should be the English
the geography the device type the output
format should be in and then you simply
call the decoder client with decoder
clients scrape URL and we'll come to
that as well when we actually learn
about this particular thing which is a
decodo client which is still yet to come
where we literally have this which is
just a big one on scrape URL and a big
format of thing is over here and we have
developed a pretty great web scraper
then so we we'll come back to that but
script URL and you extract the content
from the decoded response and the
content is in the results you clean it
and whatnot and the contents fail try to
extract from the raw which is the
fallback option which is the extract
HTML text and if we get here the decoded
usable content then we just return
something out here and then we have some
fallback options as simple as that
pretty simple right so what happens that
it starts with and checks it okay this
is the right thing then what it does it
uses the load single then it extract
content with the decoder using the
script URL method from the decoder
client which we'll study about and then
you can actually get the content machine
learning is the content from the resist
it's actually the some sort of data
structure which you can get from result
content as well as the metadata like a
title, description, stuff like that. And
then what you do you simply simply
simply create um a package as a document
and the package is a document nothing
but document the title content the
source the document type script metadata
created at as simple as that. So what it
does from a simple website URL to
perfectly structured packaged document
not just you're calling it like SE it's
just that you're literally creating a
productionized great enterprise grade
applications where you package it with
the nice way and this is how the whole
scraping API looks like. I wanted to do
go in more detail because again I'm just
making you go through other things like
load multiple URLs and all these
features which I've added extract titles
from the content close up clean up all
these things I want to go by your own
because all these things is also I just
want to talk about the right things for
you to go ahead. So this is it about
step four. I hope it makes sense. We now
go to the so let me see if we have
anything because usually we usually have
it which is the okay here we go which is
the multi-document loading because I I
was about to come over here now multiple
document loading means that what if you
have hundreds and hundreds of websites
to load that's where our decoder again
smart conv comes into play you just put
in the sources a list and then you use
the load multiple which is the load
multiple um urls and of course you have
the uh you go to the client and when you
go to the unified loader sorry
and unified loader which I've created
and then I'll just copy and paste
because that's way better load
multip
right
so what it does it uses this load
multiple thing and then it just fix just
just takes out multiple instances. So
over here when we actually see it and
then we go to web then you can actually
see over here that we have this load
multiple URLs where you can literally
load multiple URLs out there. So what it
does it's it's so basically it's it's
it's that simple. You go ahead you load
it you successfully load it all these
documents and then you gather the tasks
and then you get that up and running. Of
course, this is I I'm just trying to
avoid any sort of technicalities
explanation because if I get into that
in another an hour will take for me to
explain you out. But yeah, this is one
of the things which are doing and I want
what what I want you is go through it go
through it one by one and a lot of the
code which is web and then you have the
all these files created over here which
is one is the select loader then you
have the load single load multiples and
all that data out here.
Right. And then you can go to web then
where we are inheriting all those
understanding and then we are loading
multiple concurrently. So you can see
that we are loading multiple URLs
concurrently where you gives the list of
URLs the maximum current requests and
then you sync asynchronously
um load all these things. Of course,
we'll come back to a little bit what is
load load with seer means and how we're
getting all these. But again, this this
can be easily understandable. But what
you're trying to do is we are trying to
cover any other features which can
actually come into the place.
So I wanted to I wanted to explain about
that which is
mixed content rolling and what does it
really mean which is let's say the
student gives us the sources our smart
student gives us the sources our smart analysis
understands okay so three websites are
detected and two files are detected it
sends three websites to the professional
web scraping API and two files to the
file processing so the truck one which
scrapes the u Wikipedia with decoder
step two scraping IPC CC reports with
EOD. The truck 3 does this, truck 4 does
this and then you have the all the
documents which you package in a
document and then you send it over.
Now why our enhanced system is
incredible because Dakota integration is
for enterprisegrade scraping. Enterprise
grade scraping. And then we have a small
batch which is always smooth which is up
and running which is the most important
part of it.
And then we handle it very gracefully
very gracefully. We have unified
experience one just simple thing and
enterprise features like metadata
scalable architecture quality validation
cost tracking and stuff like that. So
it's creeps any website loads any file
data routes everything automatically
handles error gracefully and provides
rich metadata for the better content.
And as I always say the best highways
connect everywhere. Our enhanced system
brings the entire internet and all your
files into one unified pipeline. Sorry,
it's I think some latex error. I'm not
sure why.
So this is it about before where we are
able to create a nice scraping API. And
of course I know that I've not went into
detail. I would just want to understand
that how I'm actually doing all this.
Then what then what we're going to do
now is we're not going to talk about we
have we are done with the web. We're
going to talk about PDF and the
documents that okay this is how we load
the PDF documents. But I'll get that a
little bit quickly because of course I
wanted to figure it out because I've
written 100 page document not just to
read it out. I wanted to read it out.
Right? So then we go to the step number
six which is more interesting and then
we keep on moving on. So now we go to
the step number five. Now step number
five is nothing but a specialized
document loaders where what we did in
the last one step is we were able to
create an highway system where we able
to script create a decoder integration
that is able to scrape any website finds
any figures the file type assign it to
nice one and then we go ahead. So there
is now what we'll do is we will go ahead
and go inside the garage. So basically
we have the smart highway system which
we have which automatically routes the
documents into the right trucks. Now we
need to go inside the garage and meet
each specialist truck and build them
basically. So a fire truck has has
ladders and horses for fire and
ambulance has a medical equipment for
emergencies and each vehicle is
perfectly designed for this. So the same
way we want to design each vehicle each
trucks who is going to be using our
thing to do to load the documents to
load the PDFs to load the web to to surf
the internet and even the master
blueprint where the base thing the base
model of the car like every car has an
engine every vehicle has an engine every
vehicle has a brake right the same way
you have to this space loader where
you have to this space loader where every
specialist will be having these on top
of that with their own mechanism of PDF
loader web loader and document loader.
So the master blueprint as we spoke
about is nothing but our universal truck
design. Basically you have this base
loader and I already showed it to you
over here which is the base.py
and uh in that base.py the reason why we
needed that without a master blueprint
PDF truck might work differently than
text truck. Some trucks might be missing
the important features hard to add new
truck types chaos and confusion.
Correct? Right. All trucks work the same
way from the outside. For example, if
the ambulance is going on and then the
fire alarm is going on, both are looking
like a vehicle, right? So the same way
we wanted to have the master blueprint
of how it should look like like some of
the most important features that
everyone is having engine braing
systems, everyone having same safety
features. The same way this base pipe is
like load single document, load a single
document from the source. We have not
implemented anything but this is the one
of the feature which every specialist
should have. Load multiple documents
concurrently. So basically load multiple
documents out there. Load stream which
is load documents as a stream which is a
generator right and all these features
like a base features right.
So then we have some of the which we
call as universal safety features which
is traffic control which is parallel
loading. We can load multiple things out
here. So you can see the so I I I told
you in the last step that we'll come
back to this again. So what does this
mean? That multiple trucks can work at
the same time. No traffic jams or system
overload. basically building more lanes
and failed trucks do not stop than
another and maximum efficiency as simple
as that. Then we have this get document
type which eventually figures out what
is the document type out there using
this method and then you have this
format detection as you can see then
document creation factory then you go
and then create a document where it
creates a document instance with the
standard metadata by looking at those
and taking those document which we have
created you can see that this document
class is which we have created uh
previously into our
uh bot.py Pi basically and if you even
if you go inside it then we have created
those particular details. So that is
one. Now I don't want to go too much of
in detail about what does this all this
means but yeah I hope you get the gist
of what you're trying to do is we are
trying to have some universal safety
features into our base pipeline for it
to be able to control the basically
parallel loading some of the things
which is universal safety features where
all the specialist will inherit from
this base class.
So let's go to the first one which is
the text master which is the document
loader. So if you go to the document
loader over here which is nothing but
documents.py Pi and you just see the
document loader and this is the document
loader which you're focusing and this
class basically what it does the
specialist was what what it does it
loads for the textbased document formats
which is supports the txt format MD
format and all and then it says okay
supported formats are the following
and um
then we have this the again you can see
over here the load single the
implementation of this because every
truck is different right so the load
single is different over here that says
okay with log context it loads the
document if the document type is txt it
loads the text if the document type is
empty it loads the markdown all in all
so you'll see that load text is also
written over here which where we have
written asynchronously load the text
file and then it throws the text file
then load the markdown so we've created
all those methods and then we are
calling based on the particular format
basically routing to the appropriate
loader method
which is the multi-tool approach then we
can go through which is where we are
loading the document and then what we
technically doing
which is markdown handler it marks down
then HTML text extractor if there's any
HTML thing then JSON data converter
which you have done and then tool 5 CSV
so even the document loader has multiple
tools inside it and then word document
reader and all and all so these are this
these these are for a few of the
document now we have this PDF expert
which is a PDF loader so I'll just a
little bit zoom
and go to the PDF.py and what this PDF
loader does it loads for the PDFs
documents and you can see over here that
it loads the PDF document first of all
it creates that document and when you
call that creates document you can see
that base.py Pi really has this create
document and it creates the first of all
document based on the PDF right and then
extraction method it PDF loader dot um
pyf now
it uses the asynchronous function again
you can see over here that the PDF it
load singles and the heavy duty PDF work
and then there's a PDF extraction tool
which is the which you have created out
here and you can also see over here that
we have created the PDF extraction tool
which extracts the text from that Right?
So I don't want to go into more coding
details. I know you you guys are great.
You just based on GPD and try to
understand what exactly each line of
code does, but I just want you to know
the gist of what you're trying to do.
And then you have the internet server
which is the web loader. So if you go to
the web.py and the web loader which is
over here which loads for the web
content from URLs using professional
scraping APIs and we have already talked
about this into our last step. So it
uses all those methods in the which is
this website specialist. The first one
which we load which is the website
specialist. Basically the document type.
The supported format for this class is
nothing but the URL which is website
specialist. And then we have this web
surfing process which is just defining
how to load that thing and you and using
the codo
we were able to do the right thing. For
example as asynchronously we are
fetching the URL content. We are
visiting the website check if it worked.
What type of content is this etc etc
etc. And then we have this extract HTML
text. If if Dakota integration does not
works, we use beautiful soup to make it
work. And then we have other methods,
other supporting methods out there. Now,
how does all of this works? So, let's
say that you have the sources which is
textbook.pdf into a current directory,
notes.txt file, data.csv file, and then
URL. So, for the source and sources, the
source starts with it, you use the web
loader. If the source ends with PDF, you
use the PDF loader or else you use the
document loader.
And then whatever you have instantiated
that particular truck you just call that
particular load single and give the
source of whatever it might be and it
will get you the right set of data from
it which is loading the document.
Now I want to talk about how is it
different at all and where it really
combines where it really you know is
brilliant is every truck and when I say
truck every classes over here is
expertly designed for its own document
type. PDF truck knows about pages and
fonts. Web truck knows about HTML and
URLs, the text and everyone the perfect
specialization which we were able to
create. Then we have a consistent
interface that all trucks follows the
same blueprint and the blueprint is our
base loader and every method they have
the two most method which load single
and load multiple with multiple
additional methods in their specialized
based on whatever their object type is
and they all have the same output format
which is document objects. Right? So we
have also created the doc document
object out there and we were able to use
that to be able to do some sort of task.
For example, if you go to the core and
our models which we have we this is our
document object output is nothing but in
this particular format.
So we did have the extremely good error
handling extensible design. You can add
a new PowerPoint support. You can handle
video transcripts. You can handle image.
you just keep on adding by extending
that base loader and just using that on
and on without even going in need to go
and change anything out there. So it's
scalable, defensive and readable at the
same time. So I hope it makes sense. Now
what we will do is we'll go to the step
number six which is the which is the
text kitchen. Now what does it mean that
we'll be creating a text processing
pipeline which cleans the text curs the
document counts the words and packages
everything for the next step basically
for an AI to convert that data which you
have loaded and the process data to be
able to create the training data set you
go to the step six which is the text
processing pipeline it is very simple I
want you to read all along but what
we're trying to do is once we have those
loaded data we now go ahead and convert
that into much more clean text cuts the
documents ments into manageable chunks
so that every chunk can be used to
create a training data set counts the
words and packages everything perfectly
for the next step which we going to use.
So the chef tools the chef tools
basically the master chef basically the
the the initi the initiating basically
the what is the logger we instantiate
our logger for the pre-processor the
chunk size basically each piece each
piece into a particular document should
have at least thousand words just like
you cut your pizza into slices right and
then each piece can overlap with the
next next by 200 words to give like
overlapping pizza slices so no toppings
fall through the cracks so chunk overlap
Right now
this is the complete cooking process
which is step number one clean the text.
Step number two create the chunks and
step number three which is log them. As
simple as that. So you can see the
document over here as well which I've
created. This is the asynchronously
processed document. Somebody has to call
this. We call this two method two most
important method. Clean clean text and
create chunks. In clean text I had the
basic things where you remove excessive
white spaces. You remove very short
lines. So you remove all those things
and then you have the create chunks and
this is the text chunk which is a
document a document ob sorry the the
text chunk object so that it outputs as
an object so that it remains consistent
whatever the data structure which we
have defined over there um so document
ID the content the start index the end
index chunk index and token and then we
append that that into a chunk now if
there's multiple chunks then you
actually have the multiple chunks and
then you create every chunk into that
text partular chunk object.
Pretty simple, right? So what what we're
doing lit literally is we are washing
the machine where each machine is
removing the any white spaces, removing
tiny lines. For example, the best
example is this. So this is converted
into this after cleaning. Then we have
the text chunking process. So just like
that, as I said, you're trying to create
eat an entire pizza in one bite, which
is impossible. Same with AI. A book
might have 100,000 words. AI can only
process maybe a thousand word at a time.
So we cut the book into 100 perfect
slices that AI can handle in a way
intelligently. Basically our AI client
and that's why we have this a smart
chunking algorithm. Now what the smart
chunking algorithm I want you to worry
about the code but later on but what
does this do does it creates the chunk
out there. So I'll come to that chunk in
a bit. For example, why do we need? So
the this is the chunk. Now we I also
talked about the overlap thing. So
without overlap you can see that chunk
one is the dinosaur was walking through
the forest when suddenly it heard as the
then chunk two. So the the context is
not being matched correct. So the story
is broken. We lose the connection
between chunks. To have the connection
between chunks we usually have with
overlap idea. Now what does this mean?
The chunk one usually have the dinosaur
was walking through the forest when
suddenly it heard a loud noise. When
suddenly it heard a loud noise and got
scared then it looked around. So it took
a context before and after as well to be
able to make sense out of the previous
one which is the success where we able
to get the context of the previous and
the next one as well. So overlap working
is pretty pretty simple. You just you
know use that into the which which which
I've seen that we are overlapping and
creating the chunks in a way that really
really matters.
For example the document which I've
created the data set the title is the
Rome Juliet then this is the content and
document type is PDF. It cleans that. It
creates the chunk and then the final
result which comes out of it is the
check text chunk document of ID of chunk
001. The content of that particular is
this. Then you have another one which is
the the chunk number two and then it
goes on and on.
So you have other methods which you can
go and learn about it. But what we are
doing literally we are creating the AI
optimized portions basically for AI to
process and create the training data.
Then every chunk knows exactly where it
comes from. The parallel processing
memory efficient configurable handles
any document size graceful degradation
consistent output which is in a
particular format and much more.
So we have the complete journey so far.
The step number one is the loading of
the document. Step number two is the
text cleaning. Right. Step number three,
text chunking where we chunked into a
particular several things and then we
now chunks which should be you given to
AI to be able to process it in a way it
AI to be able to process it in a way it should.
So now we have the another step number
seven. So step number seven what does
this do which is the job assignment
office basically now we have the hell
lot of things ready which is the
specialist who does the work. Now any
document which comes in we should be
able to create a the task manager who
creates the job templates assign it to
the right specialist tracks the progress
handle multiple objects project at the
same time and keep detailed records
basically logs at the same task and now
that's what we're going to to learn in
the next step. So now we'll go ahead and
learn about our step number seven. Now
step number seven what does it say is
that you have your everything ready
right you have your factory and
everything ready but now we also need a
way once we load the document once we
process the document we need a way to
create something out of it which is the
basically the data out of it the
training data right and that's why we'll
create a job assignment office so let's
say that you're running a movie studio
and in that movie studio you have
different departments the departments
might be directors for filming
editors for cutting scenes, sound
engineers for audio, special effect
artists for magic, etc., etc. And then
there's an production manager which
decides which department should work on
each scene and make sure everybody knows
what to do. And that's what we're going
to develop. We're going to develop a
task management system for this project
which creates the job templates/shots
job descriptions. It assigns the right
specialists to do each job. It tracks
the progress and makes sure everything
gets done. locks down the projects at
the same time and multiple projects at
the same time and keep detailed records
of what really happened.
So let's meet the production manager. So
I want you to go to this uh manager.py
and when you go to the manager.py,
you'll be eventually having the task
manager and this is the task manager
where we initialize the logger, we
initialize the templates and then we
have the we initialize all the task
generators there. There might be
multiple generator over here. The
generation, classification and
generation, classification and summarization.
So this is a production manager and um
what it does. So I'll explain you in
detail what it does is you just need to
go and say that
I need QA generation. This task manager
will automatically pull up all the
generation and then get you the QA
generation task done. Right? So there
are two things which I want you to know
about the task templates and a keyword
generation template. So the task
template if you have seen that in our
core thing we have developed in the
models that what the task template
should look like. It's like an object
which represents what a task template
would look like whenever we assign a
task. That's the best practice which you
talked about like a recipe card right
and then for example let's say that you
have a QA generation template right? So
task template your name will be basic QA
generation the task type is the QA
generation the description and the
prompt associated with that particular
task template. So it's like a recipe
cards we have not yet still implemented
it but it's like a recipe card which we
are doing for classification
summarization as well as the task
template which is like an object which
tells okay what our really data looks
like the task templates should look
like the task templates should look like.
So pretty simple right the step number
one which we hold over here is job
request comes in for example text chunk
and then it someone wants Q generation
from a text chunk so this is the text
chunk which we create first of all so
let's create the text chunk first of all
and then we execute the task the task is
the task type Q generate generate from
that particular chunk text chunk and
then you give this AI client the AI
client is the one which is the AI brain
which converts the text chunk into the
training data and then you assign this
so what happens is finds the right
recipe, finds the right specialist and
prepares the job and then the specialist
takes over that by calling the execute
method by calling that particular
template whatever we have which is a get
default template which is a get the
recipe card. Basically it outputs that
get recipe card and all of this has been
implemented over here. Or when you go to
the manager and then you come over here
which is create template get default
template of particular template and then
create a basic template. The template
might be of QA generation and you can
see that the prompt is also written over
here. The description about that and
then for classification the prompt is
also written over here and summarization
the sum the prompt is also written over
here. Right?
So specialist takes over the results
which is execute and then it goes ahead.
Now step number four which is the
quality control and packaging where we
package everything into task result
which is another object where whatever
the result comes out of it as a keyword
result it takes that up and running. So
same way we have the several specialists
where we have implemented that the
manager which is base task generator. So
this is the base base thing where as as
I said this is a like a blueprint. Now
this blueprint will have a multiple
there's execute the render the same way
you have the QA generation where it
execute the method and in that it
process those texts and based on the
templates which you have designed the
prompt which you have designed it and
gives the prompt the text chunk and the
task type it might be in this case it
will be the QA generation this is a QA
generation then it returns the task
result into this particular object type
which you have created in the models.py
PI and then same you have a
classification and summarization which I
have not implemented. Please feel free
to go ahead and implement that for by
your own. These are specialist
departments which we have added.
Now we also have several um smart
features. For example, we you can create
a custom templates if you want to you
know not just focus on that. You can get
templates by type. You can specify the
particular templates and all that thing
which what I want is I want you to focus
on that because all the details have
been written into into this document. My
whole idea is to tell you how to read
this document in a way which I
eventually works for you.
So yeah I I hope it makes sense then
this is a challenge. Now um the reason
why I'm saying this that what it does is
this task manager export organizes all
types of AI work using smart templates
assigns it to write specialists to each
job executes multiple tasks in a
parallel for most efficiency way and
packages results like in templates way
to be able to return for example if you
just come over here execute task now
execute task takes in task type the
chunk and the client basically AI client
and a template ID if there's a template
ID out there that if the if you if you
you first of all you get the template ID
whatever the template ID is there uh or
you create a default template which is
the default template which is out there
in the default template you define the
task type the task type and the QA
generation in this case then you get the
appropriate date generator and then then
you execute the task which is template
the chunk and the client now this
executes the generator now the generator
is an instantiation of QA generation the
QA generation generator which is execute
really process those texts and then um
now we'll we'll come to that client in a
bit where how does the processing works
but how what is the mechanism behind it
but yeah this is how eventually it is
done and then it finally says okay task
is completed that's how it does now it
automatically figures out okay what
given the task type it figures out what
sort of task needs to be executed
I hope it makes complete sense now what
we'll do is work about AI task
generation which is our another part of
it which we'll talk about in the next
step. So now we finally come to our step
number eight. I'm extremely sorry this
is step number nine but um the previous
step has been a little bit of some
problem when I was when I'm recording.
So when you get the document it will be
step number eight but kindly ignore the
previous document but however you can
also view the step number eight which
really uh makes you understand all the
steps in more detail and stuff like that
more more sort of task generators.
So step number nine. So in step number
nine what we're trying to do is we're
trying to create the training data. So
basically now we loaded the data we
processed it we created into chunks we
have a task manager to who assigns it to
particular tasks but now we need to
create an client AI client where you
always see that every generator expects
a client where an AI model right that's
what we're going to do like an AI brain
which is having access to the greatest
models and then try to connect it. So
that's what we're going to do today is
the AI client is our facto's creative
intelligence center that connects to
powerful AI models. In this case, we'll
be connecting to open AI. It generates
the creative content from the text
prompts. It manages costs and uses
efficiently, handles errors and provides
consistent results across all workshops.
So I want you to go to this particular
thing which is the
AI and then you can see in they have
imported the AI client and then
client.bike. If you if you go here,
first of all, you instantiate the logger
for the AI client. Then you use your
open AI API key and the entropic key
from your ENV file so that it has the
all the keys available. And then if
there's no keys available, then you just
sift to a default simulation. If this uh
um so so that it does not fails
then we have this process text. Now we
call this an API call. We log the log
that is API call. Then we process text
using a IML services. So we'll come to
decoder request in a bit. But what does
decoder request will mean? We'll come to
that in a bit. But this is what
eventually we'll do is we say that if
there's a simulation then we just
simulate an AI call which doesn't give
you any output. But if it's a real API
call then we call the AI.self API self.
Open AI API then we call open AI right.
And when you call open AAI then
eventually this is a system prompt where
we take the required task type and then
from this is the whatever the task might
be and the user prompt which is what is
the prompt which is given and the
associated chunk and then what you do
you have the model you have the messages
played into you you must be knowing this
the maximum tokens the temperature all
these parameters
and then what you do is you simply post
that and um use the HTTP and post on
this particular API and then you simply
get an output which is the output where
is the confidence the token uses the
cost associated with it the processing
time to get that same we do for the
enthropic I don't have an anthropic key
so I have not really tested it out but I
tested out this open AI and then
eventually it calls the open AI key and
if it's self-enthropic call open API but
if it is nothing then just simulate an
AI call and then you have the decoder
response object now what does request ID
the output of that the confidence which
you have the token usage and the cost.
So after the decodos
um scraping is done then you use an AI
brain to be able to do something out of
brain to be able to do something out of it.
As you can see that I've also written
that you connect your openi integrations
then you have the
then you have the um
sorry yeah open integrations then you
have enthropic integrations then we have
a smart fallback system. So if in this
there's a simulation develop simulation
mode for development if there's anything
goes on so we know okay it is it just
does not breaks at all and then we have
task specific uh system prompt. So for
example, if you just come over here at
last um build system prompt which is if
the task type is this uh task type QA
generation then you're an expert at
creating highquality question answers
basically the prompt which should be
given to the AI system and which we are
using here uh the s the the build system
prompt for that where it tells based on
the task type it just gets you the
particular system prompt. So basically
that's a bill system prompt for
different different systems out here
right so let's say that you put in a
request which is generate three Q pairs
from the biologic text the input text
and the task type what it brain does it
routes to open AAI builds a specialized
system prompt based on this particular
system prompt then sends optimized
request to an AI service using that AI
uh open AI open AI API client then
process and format the response into a
decoder response into a particular
object which you can see over here um
which I which we can be which can be
seen over here in the particular format
tracks usage and costes and returns a
professional unit as a single source as
simple as that right so this is what
this AI client is trying to do now why
this is extremely good I don't want to
spend more more of a time because I know
that I'm I you know I rush at the end
the reason why because you guys already
have spent more and more number of time
in starting only to make you understand
the base and the context of
So there are multiple AI services
there's automatically routing to the
right service smart fallback system
consistent interface regardless of the
provider the robust error handling retry
cost monitoring usage tracking
performance and everything which is
going to be used in streaml application
so I hope it makes sense the AI client
which we have developed now what we will
do we'll go to the next step which is
how we can quality control the lab uh
which is quality control pipeline uh
which we'll talk about in the next on.
So now we're going to start off with our
step number 10 which is step number nine
in this case which is the quality
control lab. Let me just see if this is
working until
yeah. So
what is quality control lab? Now we have
generated the data which is whatever the
training data is generated from our task
template. Right? Now we need to also
inspect every training example for the
quality issues. We want to measure
multiple quality metrics such as
toxicity, bias, relevance towards the
specific context and approves high
quality examples for use and rejects
problematic content automatically and
provides a detail quality reports for
the improvement. So the architecture
which we look out for is the quality
evaluator for initialize the document
basically logging and then we say the
quality metric which we're going to
check which is the harmful content bias
variety consistency and topic relevance
all these things which we're going to
check as a matrix. So how does this
really look like? So we as
asynchronously define an evaluate
example and what it does it inspect a
single training example. So what it does
it runs all the quality checks which is
check toxicity check bias check
diversity check go corance and check
relevance and you can just go here and
go to evaluation and then you can click
on evaluator and then you'll finding all
those code here and um over here you
calculate the overall quality scores
based on whatever you have taken and
then you generate a detailed report
based on that. So we check a toxicity
and and toxicity and of course I've not
implemented this because you can use AI
and AI client to be able to detect if it
has a toxic and nature and all but
there's one station one which is
inspection stations toxicity then you
have bias detection then you have
diversity coherence verification
relevance testing and etc. And what it
does that it gives you the quality
report by the end. The quality report
might be okay the target ID, the type,
the overall score, the past and the
matrix scores which we eventually get
for everyone. And then you get a proper
nice quality report based off from your
data. Of course, I don't get too much in
detail because it is super simple to
understand it because I don't want to
waste my time and your time as well to
be able to tell you simple things
because you it's it's a world of AI be
involved into it as much as I can. And
the reason why we do this is very simple
which is safety first. We should be able
to identify that it's a responsible AI
and companies love it as at times when
you actually develop something like this
and then consistent excellence and the
continuous improvement which we
eventually use via the quality tracking
metric analysis and feedback loop and
optimizing the overall performance based
on the quality data. I hope it makes
sense completely. Now pretty simple
right? It does not really has the all
the overall thing but over here we are
just putting the mock quality evaluation
from from now on. What you can do you
can actually create multiple um as
asynchronous sort of thing for example
toxicity dete detection then bias then
diversity then corance from relevance
and other methods out here itself and it
eventually returns the object type which
is a quality report given all these
parameters inside it.
So I I hope it makes sense. Let's go to
the next step which we have which is
more interesting step and uh um now we
have tested it okay this is nice
document the nice data produced now we
need to package it up and ship it right
and that's what we going to talk about
the next one so now we come to the next
step which is step number 11 uh 10
basically so
what we're trying to do is we do have
everything now we need to do is package
and ship it so bas so basically whatever
we have training data into the
particular object. We package it into
multiple formats which is JSON format,
CSV format, packet and etc. We want to
label everything properly like a
metadata and the quality scores
associated with each data set. We
organize the data efficiently for easy
across and delivers a new preferred
format and tracks what was shipped for
quality assurance. So this is our master
packager. You can go to export and this
is a master packager where we
instantiate our logger for the exporter
and then this is asynchronous function
which eventually exports the data set
using the following method. So the
format is the given the given format is
a JSON format and the export format is
again our object which we have created
in models.py by and then you return by
using the export JSON uh into that
particular format by giving the required
arguments or parameters inside it and
then you have the CSV file and then
you'd have the same one and then
otherwise it defaults to JSON as simple
as that then you have the specific uh
methods associated with the export JSON
then you have export CSV and all those
code uh logic is has been written around
that itself
so then we have this as as I said
universal packaging that if The export
format is JSON, CSV, packet, hugging
face and of course I've not implemented
much more into this project. So what I
want from you is you should be able to
implement multiple export format and
you'll be see how extensible it gets by
just replicating the CSV and of course
in the assignment file. You'll be also
getting that multiple things which you
do. That's why this this is not all like
added with tons of features because you
ultimately have to add those features
into this project. So uh this is it
about the sort of thing and I don't want
to go in multiple details but yeah this
is our step number uh 11 and sorry step
number 10. So I hope it makes sense and
this is our basically the base class
where we are inheriting the database
manager uh on that. So I I hope it makes
sense. Now what we'll do is we'll go to
the step number 12 which is the
professional web scout which is the
decodo step number 11 which is a decodo
client. Now let's go to Dakota client
and this go to because we have been
always taking the name of this decod
client where you must be thinking what
does this do client means. So this is
nothing but an API client for web
scraping and data extraction in a way
that enterprise grade setting would work
around. For example um let's say that um
you have a URL and that URL that's how
we were able to and we were using this
decoder client on and on into our
project itself and now here we go with
an actual explanation around it.
So what it does it scripts any website
with a professional grade extracts
cleans handles error gracefully
processes multiple stuff uses proper
authentication and support multiple
loces and geographica targeting to pro
to bypass any bots. So we instantiate
our logger this is a base URL which is
the where we are going to this is an API
endpoint where we're going to call by
giving the URL to this particular
endpoint. This is a timeout. there's a
MAC retries and instantiation thing and
then what we do we get authentication
details from the um uh environment. So
we get those authentication details and
then we set up headers. Now headers in
this case basically which means that
this is basically uh how we're going to
call. So as asynchronously we this is a
base URL this is a timeout and this is a
HTTP client and then we just call it
right and then what what we say we
scrape the URL right now how does the
scraping for the URL works so if the
target is universal so all these
parameters and then based on the
parameters it makes the request to the
API and then post onto this v2 scrape on
that particular endpoint on that
particular endpoint base URL by calling
this and then it logs the response for
the debugging
And then it returns those particular
results into a particular format. And of
course it does all this work. It remove
HTML tags and all these clear white
spaces and then returns the standardized
format after standardizing or cleaning
the bit of text. Pretty simple right now
and this is what it does. I don't want
to get again more in detail but we do
have an intelligent fallback system. So
this is a professional scraping
features. Then we have fallback system
whereby it automatically falls back to
simple stuff which you have done in a
web loader. And of course we haven't
been continuously using this. And then
you have a parallel processing power
that can scrape multiple URLs at the
same time and uh I hope it makes sense.
And then we have multi-target scraping.
Then you have geographic and local
support. And all this is supported by
Dakota itself. And that's why we were
able to come with a pretty nice examples
of how we could do such things. I hope
it makes sense. I hope though because we
have already talked about this. I don't
want to get in much more detail. You can
read more if you'd like. But this is it
about the decoder thing. Now
uh let me just see. Yeah, good. So now
what we're going to do is we're going to
work on command line interface. Those
command line interface is based on a
terminal. You can write those commands
and then that command will be doing by
providing some simple commands for the
all factory operations not stream
application but CLI interface where you
provides a simple text commands process
documents generates the data evaluates
and launches the dashboard for the
visual thing. So what I want is I want
to go to the CLI and CLI is eventually
has everything which is in.py. So what
it does initializes the CLI API training
data curation bot and then you have the
command. So if somebody says process it
should be able to
uh process the source directory and then
the output directory the task types to
be mentioned the format to be mentioned
the quality filters the number of max
workers and asynchronously doing it. Now
what eventually happens the the reason
why we do this it should be able to we
should be we should be able to do it in
the right way. For example, a TDB
process source directory. This is the
documents available out there and the
output directory should be in results.
Then you specify the task type. Now TDB
process from this source directory. The
task type is QA generation. We're going
to generate the Q generation data set
and the task type is classification.
Choose output format. We can choose the
output format to be particular CSV file.
And all of this is possible if you're
able to
um um
follow these commands to be able to do a
particular set of task. Now
given that all these things are done
what I want you can just go ahead go
through the process document asyn as and
this is also very simple right this is
pretty pretty simple it is not really
hard to understand it that what every
even one commands does into this
particular format is nothing but really
really asking um calling this and then
calling a particular method from the
class which you have created uh and then
doing things accordingly so I hope it
makes sense again I don't I don't want
to really get into too much of detail
but yeah that is it about the CLI and I
want you to explore by your own uh
rather than me going step by step
because it's super comprehensive and you
can just uh use GPT because if I I don't
really explain one by one but the whole
point of this command line interface
that we could uh interact with with our
project via the terminal itself and we
should be able to use it in a way which
we aspire
and then we have our important so coming
back to the our bot.py Pi and we have
already I've already explained you what
this bot.py does which is like a
this bot.py does which is like a pipeline.
Now we have the CLI now we have the
dashboard which is the most important
part of it and any.py basically we have
a dashboard where it says the stream
stream application SD set page config
and then title traineration bot the
sidebars and um the dashboard the
documents generate data the analytics
the settings and then for the dashboard
page we had all of this. So I don't want
to explain all of this but what
eventually we're doing we're creating
the nice stream application app from
this and again all these are in your
assignments where we ask you itself to
uh understand this very easily it's very
simple what my main point was to help
you understand the core part of it the
core part we have already completed and
the documents is there please go ahead
and go through it one by one and you'll
be able to understand it much more
detail we have made it super
comprehensive at one time and you should
be able to understand how the whole
application was built. Uh I don't want
to go in coding one by one details but
eventually all the we have created the
four different tabs the and then for
every tab you have the logic and then we
are literally calling the stuff from
whatever we have created for part of it
and then when you actually do one by
line of line the reading of the code
you'll truly understand where and what
things are being used. I hope it makes
sense completely makes sense. We are
done with the project we are done with
everything. What we'll do is we will
finalize with our assignments and you
can find the assignment PDF in the
description down box below which simple
stuff which we have created for you for
you to work on. Work on that and I hope
you really loved this project
explanation. Again, all this project
source files and everything is available
for absolutely free in the description
brown box below. Go ahead, check it out
and then we catch up in the next one.