https://youtu.be/ruA_EYARCNg?si=X_61tC82RY3dL6sj


So last week I reviewed over 150 plus
machine learning projects. It was full
of students, career switchers, people
who are transitioning into the AI, AI
enthusiasts and all. And you know what?
How many of them could actually deploy
like it happens in production like it
happens in real world? Absolute zero. So
people are confused and they're stating
that hey Aush I know Python, I know
TensorFlow, I know even how to deploy a
model using pickle files and all that. I
know how to build a using fast API. I
know how to use an APIs and some of them
actually know that what production grid
looks like but they still are not being
able to get hired and the only big
reason behind it is that you can train a
model and then you can maybe show some
fake production but you cannot ship a
model like it happens in a real world
setting. You cannot ship the model the
way recruiter expects it to be shipped.
And that's a massive difference. And
frankly speaking in today's AI era,
company will not pay even a single
dollar if you just know how to use
Jupyter notebook.
Most of the students, most of the
aspiring AI enthusiasts actually don't
know that how the real systems are built
in real world. I see a lot of YouTube
videos. I see a lot of guides which
actually teaches you that this is how
you can push that in production. But I
see a lot of these are actually way
behind than what actual real production
grade looks like. So let me tell you
what I mean. I see a lot of YouTube
videos, courses and all teaching like
okay how to get a 95% accuracy how to
train a model how to evaluate a model
how to use TensorFlow how to fine-tune a
GPD model how to maybe use transformers
and even how to deploy this in
production using some fast API and other
frameworks and you know what they're
great skills you need those skills but
you know what exactly happens in real
world or at work your model needs to run
24 into 7 not just once in a notebook
network. Your data comes from messy
databases, not clean CSV files. And most
of the time, models break, and you need
to know why and how to fix them. You
need to prove your model is actually
working, not just hope for it to work.
You need to deploy updates without
breaking everything. And you need to
know when your model stops working and
definitely it will. And frankly
speaking, very very few aspiring
students or AI enthusiasts actually know
about these things. And this is not just
machine learning operations. This is not
just core machine learning. This is a
new domain known as machine learning
system design or AI system design. And
this is the core reason that most of you
are not being able to get hired. So all
these YouTube videos, courses or
whatever is available online, they teach
you the first step. They don't really
cover the next 80% which is the other
part and the major part of that step.
And here's what you're not learning
first. the math that matters. Frankly
speaking, you might be thinking that in
today's era, in today's world, you don't
need maths. You don't need core machine
learning because AI is able to do a lot
of things. While this is a completely
separate video, but I will just tell you
that this is just a myth. You need to
know about this to debug your model
because a lot of time what happens your
model accuracy predictions actually goes
from 97% to just 50% or 64% overnight.
And you need to know that how to debug
that model the way it should have been
debugged. And the second most important
thing which people are not learning is
how machine learning works in
production. Most people don't know what
is logging. Most people don't know how
they can track their models. Data
versioning, experiment tracking,
campaignings and much more. And you can
train a model. But you cannot build a
system without knowing about how machine
learning works actually in operations.
And there's another aspect which I see
these days a lot is how to think about a
machine learning problem. And this is
what I call as machine learning system
design or AI system design. Most machine
learning projects fail before they
start. Maybe not because they were bad
at coding. Maybe because they were just
bad at maybe feature engineering or
something. Maybe because the problem
didn't even needed ML to think about.
So in this video we'll be covering
specific parts of machine learning
system design which is the part one of
our whole series on machine learning
system design. So in this part one we'll
be covering five topics of designing a
machine learning system. First not every
problem needs machine learning. When to
use it and when not. Second most ML
fails before you write code. You need to
define the problem correctly. Then the
third lesson would be better data beats
better models every single time. Fourth
lecture is about features matters more
than algorithms. And fifth, start simple
but add complexity only when needed. And
these five lessons in this video will
actually change the way you think about
a machine learning problem. And this is
the part one. The part two will focus on
advanced machine learning system design
and part three will cover the
practically designing the whole system.
So make sure that you're following the
series throughout the end. As you can
see, this is just the first video which
is going to cost you somewhere around 5
hours to 6 hours of total learning
content. Make sure that you follow all
the advices. Make sure that you follow
all the related resources which has been
published. And this is not it. We have
built codeex 12. I have also made a
completely different platform the codeex
which is absolutely free. In this video,
we'll be only covering the system design
part. But this is not it. We have
released a completely new dashboard, a
completely new platform which we call it
as a key codex. So it is not something
that you can complete AI in 30 days, you
can complete X thing in 40 days or
something like that. It is a full stack
platform where you can learn from
scratch AI modern AI from scratch
towards the end. So after completing
this machine learning system design, you
can literally start machine learning
from scratch. So here are the modules
which are available in the codex at the
moment and remember these modules are
completely free. We do not charge
anywhere for any of our courses now. Now
now we don't charge anywhere on any
platform for any of our courses.
So we have released mathematics for
machine learning. This is the most
important part. The first module which
we have already released is mathematics
for core machine learning and AI. And
this is not just the mathematics where
we are solving problems. This is the
mathematics or machine learning for
modern AI road map. Linear algebra,
probability and statistics has been
already released. We are also soon going
to be released calculus which you'll get
a timeline in the dashboard itself. The
second module which we have released
machine learning the part one the core
machine learning. You can check it out
by going into the codex dashboard
itself. Third we have released a
practical MLOps course. So after
completing this machine learning system
design you can literally go there and
learn MLOps by implementing it. However,
the part two and part three of machine
learning system design will also be
published very soon on the platform. And
frankly speaking, we are not going to
just stop there. These are just
pre-release modules which is just 2% of
the entire thing which we're going to
release in the Cordex platform. You can
see multiple coming soon modules over
there. What you eventually have to do
just go onto the cordex platform sign up
there and then you have the modules all
step by step and every modules has its
own attached PDF file, lecture notes,
coding files, videos, every single
thing. If something is yet to come, it
will be there itself. So what are we
going to teach in codeex? It's very
simple. So the codeex actually consists
of several parts. Codeex consists of a
stack which I call it as a modern AI
stack. You learn about CoreML. Then you
learn about MLOps. After that you learn
about machine learning system design.
After that you learn about agentic AI.
Post that we talk about generative AI.
And then we don't forget the most
important thing soft skills trading. I
think you can be great at every skill
over in this tag. But if you don't have
this you're not there yet. And I see
that there are lot of problems which we
of course going to cover in the later
part of the videos as we publish more of
it. So this is the paradigm of what
we're going to cover into the codeex.
But I think I have spoke much about the
codeex. You can literally go on the
website see what we are offering see
what it is there. Again, this is a
completely free platform. I do not
intend to charge any money for this
modern AI stack because as you all know
that I have been fully engaged in my
another company secondary labs and I
literally don't have any time commitment
to be taking any paid course at the
moment. So as this video contains just
machine learning system design, this is
the part one of machine learning system
design. The part two of the machine
learning system design will soon be
released and followed by part three. And
if you want to follow your entire
machine learning AI and road map, you
should be able to go on to the Codex
platform, sign up there and learn every
single thing which you're going to teach
over there from start to the end. So I
will not speak much. I'm a big fan of
writing. All of the information is
available into the description box and
to our codeex website. So I hope that
you enjoy this course machine learning
system design and I also hope that you
enjoy your the codeex. So hi everyone
let's come back to our first lecture and
in this lecture what I want to talk
about is I'm not going to say you hey
this is what machine learning operation
means this is what the definition of
machine learning operations and what not
I'm not going to go into that much
details right now but what I want to do
is help you understand where the term
machine learning operations really come
to so basically and all these
experiences have been experiencing what
I've been experiencing in in my own AI
company or probably to the companies
whom I talk to on a v various AI
businesses, top businesses I talk to on
a daily basis. So I really have this
experience of what really people want.
So usually I keep on hearing every
company which I whom I talk to, every
businesses whom I talk to, they really
say I want machine learning, they want
machine learning, they want AI, they
want AI agents, they want that buzzwords
into their product.
For example, every company wants AI to
be or machine learning to be added and
investors ask hey where is the machine
learning in your product or managers ask
team to add some AI because it sounds
modern it sounds fancy but as you can
see that there are particular set of
people who keeps on asking investors
managers top business decision makers
who keeps on asking about adding machine
learning into your model uh into your
learning into your model uh into your product
that you create a lots of social
pressure and once you create a lots of
social pressure you ended up using
machine learning even then it is not
even required for a simple task which
can be solved without machine learning.
So when I used to see the big giants
like Andrew Nang and Yan Leon say it
that hey you don't need all this AI and
machine learning for a certain set of
problem I used to wonder hey why are
they saying it but when I really I'll
take some examples which has happened to
me over the past sort of years working
in into an AI company and building it to
a certain level we have identified that
hey you don't need always a machine
learning you can actually do it without
it why to complicate it while there is
the utmost level of social pressure but
not It's it's it's not always wise to
use AI and all that even when there is a
social pressure you have to make the
best out of a solution not complicated
and all I'll help you to understand with
a small set of example so let's say
there's a small grocery store what they
want to do they want to a machine
learning app they want an AI app to
track inventory of what's going on
what's going out and all that and then
predict what might be the possible
things I should add in them in my next
course But in reality, a simple
spreadsheet can spreadsheet can actually
solve it. So if it is not a big until
unless it's a Walmart or Amazon, a
simple grocery store can realize, okay,
this is what a particular item has been
sold for. For example, X1 was sold for
this much, X2 and X3 and then okay, I'll
take the first three in priority and
let's this is quantities based on your
estimation. You can just estimate it
rather than pouring thousands and
thousands of dollars into it until your
grocery store is really big. You don't
really need machine learning in that
point of view by how much you can
optimize. Of course not you can optimize
by a major level. I have seen people
doing this a blunder mistake that they
are using AI even when it is not needed.
I taken one example of grocery store
when you can you they want to create an
AI app to track their inventory and
predict the inventory but the product is
only 20 products. So just imagine that
you don't need AI over there. You don't
need machine learning over there. Just
because there's a lot of social
pressure, you do not need it. And what I
want you to do is I want you to remember
everything from here because when we
work on our project, when we work on our
any new projects, we'll be taking this
these things in consideration. Hey, do
we need machine learning? Do we need X?
We'll be asking these questions and
documenting this into a particular
readme file into a into a markdown file.
And we'll try to showcase to our people
who are viewing this thing that we have
thought through this process and we we
are not in a social pressure to use AI
and machine learning. And frankly
speaking I talk to businesses and when I
say that hey dude listen we can
definitely enhance this but you can
better off be doing something like this
without machine learning.
So not every problem is a prediction
problem. As I said that machine learning
and AI is about hey can you can you tell
me what is what what is going to happen
next right we want to predict what is
going to happen next. So right now what
is machine learning task is that given
your input X you want to predict Y right
we want to predict Y but is it always
the prediction problem? Absolutely not.
It is not always the prediction problem.
Some problems needs a simple rule that
okay you define if and else rule while
it is a big problem like machine
learning started hey how can I
generalize this but this has not gone
wrong if a problem needs if and else
it's fine I mean you can just go ahead
with a rulebased system or does it needs
a simple query database for example if I
truly talk about it what does it mean is
a database query which you can query
from a database a SQL query and then get
it done right much faster much easier
much simpler to implement. So first one
is that not every problem can be
prediction problem. You can actually
have an if and else statement right a
simple rule or a database query or maybe
a specific process or a very simple
process that first you need this then
that goes in this and then that goes in
your final output. try right a very very
simple process any of these three can be
just there now if you try to force ML
everywhere we increase the cost we
increase the complexity and certainly
machine learning is about estimating an
answer then then that's called a silent
failure in our terminology so again not
every problem you will see needs machine
learning in every context and then we
come to our next cept so let's say I'll
take I'll I'll help I'll help you with
an example let's say that you want to
build uh let's say somebody comes and
tells you hey can you help me to build a
AI model or an ML model which can
convert my pin code to a city right
which is basically right now I'm living
in let's say 8 lakh 24 that will convert
to a particular area correct while there
is there there can be maintain contained
a database where whatever the pin code
comes in it can just map it out just a
simple query out there or a lookup into
the database as simple as that right so
pin code problem it's one of the famous
problem which I point out that one guy
later came why do you need machine
learning to predict machine learning
will fail into this it just imagine how
can it estimate it can just take a guess
it any ML model whatever it is
presenting in prediction or answer it
might have some disparity even GP and
such open AI anthropic and all these big
giants say it can contain inaccurate
information. So it is not 100 100%
correct but if you have the database you
can just look in the table okay this is
where the pin code points to the uh
particular lookup into the database that
that's it you're done you don't need
complex machine learning system for it
complex AI system for it and then if
your company only gets let's say in in a
real context some company wants to
implement a pretty nice customer AI
agent software and you're at least
you're advising them and they come to
you and you're offering some AI services
and their problem is hey you know what
we get five customer complaints a month
and we want a human we want an AI to
answer them dude you have just got five
complaints a month just five which means
five complaints a month why do you need
an AI to answer it absolute trauma I
mean you don't need an AI to answer just
five customer complaints per month even
if it is 100 you don't need an AI to do
you should properly be able to translate
a particular outcome to a certain
revenue outcome. Now the reason why I
like to talk about machine learning and
operations is that we're directly
dealing with analytical and business
understanding. I don't think machine
learning operations is just for anybody
in the world. It is also for the
businesses to to think about that hey do
I need ML for this? Let's say a CEO of
the company comes and tells you, "Hey
dude, I get we want to build a customer
complaint. I mean, we we're going to
build a bot which can handle my customer
complaints." Now, you tell to the CEO,
"Hey, wait guy. Wait, wait, dude. I'm
here to build something sophisticated.
We can pour thousands of dollars into
it, tensions of dollars into it." But
just imagine that how many complaints do
we get? Okay, that's five complaints.
Just because it is five complaints,
can't we have just human to do it? Until
we go to 500, 1,000 complaints a day,
then we can implement and then also we
don't need to implement a full stack
comp. We we have to imple implement a
solution where it classifies whether it
needs a human or not and then the
architecture will go in. But we can't
really do that is go ahead and then find
and then then try to you know get those
guys and then just five complaints.
you're building a full stack solutions
on top of it. Understand? Say no with
specific reason. Translate that to a
business outcome whether in time,
revenue and all that which we'll talk
about later in the chapters and lessons.
But I want you to say no at that
particular point of time. And whenever
you build an machinery project, do not
just think in terms of that you have to
just build a code out. No, think about
it. You want you want to make sure that
whoever is reviewing your thing, they
should be able to know, okay, this is
your framework of building an AI project
and you want to show it to them. And if
you're a decision maker and business guy
watching this, please please listen to
your managers. Please, please listen to
a good AI guy and please translate
whether you need a ML or AI solution. As
simple as that.
simple as that. Now
I talked about you should be able to say
no with reasons. Now what do I really
mean by that is I say to a lot of people
that as an ML engineer as an ML engineer
your value is not just about writing
models your real power is to evaluate a
problem because right now in this world
of AI machine you just go and talk to
GPT okay and then tell to a GPT hey can
you help me build a machine learning
model given a pin code it takes me pin
code and then gener It's me the guy will
do it for you. The guy will not tell hey
I will evaluate. It will not evaluate.
It will not take your business decision.
If you go and tell, hey, can you build
me a system uh AI AI system which can
take which can basically AI ask a cursor
or something to build you an AI bot
using open AAI API. The guy will do it.
But truly understand you should be able
you're a human dude. You should be able
to say hey yeah listen this is what I
have and do you think that we have a
sustainable business outcome if you
build it
right so you should be able to say that
and that's that's the core difference
between you and the and and a lot of
people ask hey AI can also write code AI
cannot do this dude they cannot take
business decisions right now they can
advise you but based on the real
situation and interpretation you should
be able to do this that's what the work
of a data scientist visioning engineers
all these has to be now of course with
the help of an AI. So you should be able
to say hey we should not use machine
learning here. We we should not use AI
here. We should not use LLM. We should
use ML algorithms simply because right
now everybody's integrating large
language models like it's it's a piece
of game. They're not realizing how bad
it is over the period of a time because
of the cost. Right now every company is
going into a loss. Every company we're
building models right the cost related
to it the number of things which comes
while a simple model which can be
trained and PKL file which which can be
in KBS can do the much better work much
better work than LMS
and powering both of us together
so I I hope that makes sense.
Now let's say let's say
some product manager comes in right a
product managers are the real culprits
who make you do things. So product
manager comes and say says and says that
hey let us build a deep model to
recommend whether to show dark mode or
light mode to users. Right? So what the
product manager is stating the product
manager is saying if somebody comes in
my website oh my god that dude so and I
and I have seen that dude when somebody
comes on a website you should be able to
quickly identify to show light or dark
correct now definitely the guys are
getting millions and millions of things
in return out of it by doing that by all
means you do that but we can give a user
There's a toggle over there which is
just a toggle right and they can turn on
and off and most companies do this most
companies really do this they can just
on and off depending upon their choice
you don't need a model for this man
right so until unless you you're CEO and
you truly believe that it it is going to
translate me in millions and millions of
dollars of revenue and people going to
stay on my website and then that will
create a causation effect and whatn not
can happen. So that's my point of
stating that you should be able to say
no over the period of a time.
Now decide when ML is the right tool.
Right? Our job is to do three things
which I want to write over here. Our job
is to do decide whether it's a
prediction problem
that you want to predict or it's a
pattern problem.
If it a pattern problem, ML will be
super good in estimating the pattern or
figuring out what pattern it is. It's a
prediction problem. Of course, if it's a
prediction problem because you have to
as estimate a pattern and then based on
that, okay, if it is above X point, then
you actually go ahead with that is a
prediction problem or a pattern problem.
decide the first thing then you go ahead
and say that okay now I've decided do we
have the
do we have the
right data
do we have the right data and then can I
implement in simple options simpler
options rather than to build a model
always the first step figure out where
not to use
AI but still get better than the AI
tool, right? So that's what you have to
truly understand. So let's say
for example, if ML clearly wins on value
and feasibility, we should proceed.
Correct? So I'll take one simple
example. Let's say that we want to you
want to build a spam detection system
whether an email is a spam or non-spam.
Correct? So they are a good fit of
machine learning problem because what
happens here that there are billions and
billions of emails. There are billions
and billions of patterns and very
complex. You cannot just see by a word.
A free word is not an indication whether
it's a spam or or non non-spam. Correct?
So you have to truly and you cannot
build an if and else statement at that
point of time. Correct? So this type of
problem is exactly a machine learning
problem. should be able to say yes.
Now what you should do I talked about a
simpler option. Now what you should do
you say okay compare machine learning
oper options and AI options with with
huristics versus not. Now now what does
that mean? I'm going to talk about it.
Every time you see a problem talk in
three terms. The first term is simple
heristic. For example, a rule or a
scorecard. So whenever you see whenever
you see that okay, what what can be the
simpler option? Simpler option can be a
rule, a huristic system or a scorecard.
Right? Second can be a simple
classifier, a model
which is a simple classifier or
aggressor and then you have the not now.
Now what does not now means? We'll talk
about that right now. What does this not
now means? People people don't really
know on this. And then what you do, you
compare these three options, the rule,
the machine learning model and not now
on the basis of cost.
Then you compare basis on the what is
the risk associated with it and then you
compare on the associated value towards
all these three options. So let let me
help you make an understand. Let's say
you your company wants to build a
transaction whether a transaction which
comes I'm going to use a different color
let's say red whether a transaction
comes whether it's a suspicious
transaction sus or nonsus so let's go
through the three options first option
rule can you implement a rule for
example if a amount
is greater than one lakh
and from an country is Let's say a
country is our dearest nations uh
foreign country you flag it correct you
just say okay the this is a suspicious
you implement a simple rule another rule
can be another option can be that you
implement a machine learning model ML
implement a machine learning model ML model
which takes in multiple features
multiple inputs not just amount the
foreign the IPS and x number of things
hundreds of inputs and then figure out
whether this is a suspicious transaction
or not, which is a more value added
case. You can check it out all of this
onto the three parameters cost, risk and
value. And option number three could be
for now let because what does not now
means here? Not now means that you do
not have enough data to train to do this
second number because you need to have
the you need to have the data to train
right that how the suspicious looks
like. So, so the ML model learns from
it. But because if you don't have the
data that is not now, then what you do
you say okay human reviewers will
continuously check will check only large
transactions while you collect the label
data. So let's say if somebody is doing
more than a lakh transaction what the
the human reviewers will check and then
human reviewers will maintain a
database. Okay, this was a transaction
this was the feature and this was the
outcome of it. It was sus or nonsus. And
once you have the label data then you
actually do the second option. That's
what the not now over here means. I hope
that it makes sense. You can choose
based on the constraints and you can
choose whether based on the value. And
that's what very very important right
now that people are forgetting that
people are not able to do it. Right? And
then you have is anticipate failure
before you build. Now what does that
mean? Let's talk about it.
I think a good thing to talk about it.
I think a good thing to talk about it. Yes.
So before you write a code, imagine how
this can fail. So let's say you have a
problem. Let's say you have a
problem. Let's say you have a problem.
problem. Imagine
where it can fail. Failure one, failure
two, failure three, failure four,
failure five. And you'll not guess our
next set of lectures is what are the
most common failures which you should
identify. This is what we're going to
talk about. We're going to talk about
hey can what these human reviewers
reviewed can it be wrong? Whatever these
human reviewers and not now can it be
wrong? The labels can be 100% wrong.
Right? Is there any data drift? Right?
How can people misuse the system? How
can people identify some patterns which
are which my model would have learned
and x number of things. So if you think
about the failures early you think about
designing a machine learning system in
such a way that nobody can come close to
it. So that's why we say anticipate
failure that what could go wrong before
you build even write a single line of
code or even go into thinking about what
model should I use and you'll truly
notice that this will help you as a
student if you're looking for a job and
a decision maker if you're looking out
to building a sustainable AI design
to building a sustainable AI design process.
So, so what I'm going to talk about is a
example. Let's say, let me have a red
buff. Give me a second.
Yeah. So, you build a demand forecasting
model for ice cream.
So, for BaskinRobins, for BaskinRobins
is a very big guys. It's ice cream shop
or Polar bear whatever
you build. You want to build a demand
you build. You want to build a demand forecasting
demand forecasting model, right?
And then before even building that, what
questions you should have into the
anticipating failure? What if there is a
sudden heat wave? What if a new
competitor opens the next door? Your
model was trained on a last year data
right now. What if my data is no longer
relevant enough because there are
multiple competitions has opened. So you
need alerts. You need people to respond.
You need you need to be able to respond.
What if a new competitor comes in when
when you're building an ice cream shop
or Baskin Robins another time you have a
polar beer the next month your model was
trained on last year data but the next
month several cities have opened several
ice cream in inventory shop. What if
there's sudden heat wave that the the
demand start to increase? What if
there's sudden cold the demand start to
decrease? Hell hell number of things. So
you should be able to identify these
things and these AI GPT will not tell
you. You have to really understand
through a real world scenarios. I hope
this actually made sense to you. What
does the anticipation of failure really
does the anticipation of failure really means?
Good. So let's go on to the next slide.
Observe the problem and constraints. Now
many ML projects fail because nobody
spent time understanding the real world.
Correct? Because they are not
understanding. They don't have a
specific knowledge. What they don't do
they don't talk to users they don't talk
to the domain experts they don't talk to
the operations they don't ML model is
not just about building model and
forgetting but also how much time it
takes to respond. Let's take let's say
that you're building a stock market uh
frequency prediction system. If that
model takes ages to reply your stock
might actually I mean short or whatever.
I mean you I'm not in finance but stock
can actually at that that point of time
it has actually gone the chance to buy
has has gone right the market has
already dropped till the time it given a
prediction latency is about how quick it
can be do we have the budget limits
right regulation like in medical there's
thousands of reg regulation which comes
GDPR HIPS SOC type 1 type two and hell
number of things people who are building
their website in lovable do they think
that they're compliant absolely
Absolutely not. If you're building a
peak website in lovable and storing
information, you're not a compliant
platform. The guys the the users can sue
you for that because you're not a SOC
type 2 cert certified firm because there
are certain regulations which needs to
be considered. So lot of things they
have to consider that you have to talk
to users. The first one itself
who will be using it, talk to them,
right? Second is domain experts.
domain experts. Third is operations. And
the reason why students should know this
that you should document whenever you do
all these projects, you should address
these questions because these questions
bring confidence in a true AI engineer,
true machineing engineer, true data
true machineing engineer, true data scientists.
Latencies, they don't talk about it.
Budget, how many how much? We don't have
a trillions of dollars in a bank
account. limits,
regulations
and then where the data flows and how it
flows. There are number of problems,
number of a constraints. For example,
you want to recommend products on a
phone app, right? There's a mobile app,
you want to recommend it. Your response
must be under milliseconds. For example,
Instagram is recommending you reals. It
is in milliseconds. If it takes ages,
you won't be there. model cannot tell 10
external services a data device cannot
leave the region due to privacy issues
it should be x excss compliance right if
you if China has built a policy that
whatever the app is there it should
store in my region only so a hell lot of
things so the because this this will
actually prepare you for a lot of
approaches you would pick okay for
example let's say you want to deploy the
model in China so you have to take a
China data center to deploy it otherwise
you can't actually do that second brain
actually has a data centers in United
States of America. We have a data
centers in Europe. So you have to do
take the instances on AWS of these
particular data centers. So that's the
approach which will actually help you to
approach which will actually help you to understand
and then you have to explain the forces
and the risk.
So for example
before building you should be able to
explain the main forces that what value
are we chasing? What costs and risks are
we chasing? Are we taking? So what is
the value?
What value are we taking?
What risk are we taking? And who can get
hurt if the model is wrong? What is that
estimation? So I'll tell you a real
story. So what happened? Second brain
actually was a AI agent. They were it is
a it is an AI sales agent. It was trying
to convince a user to come on a call
with a salesperson by by telling good
good things about the product. What it
did it ended up booking a dinner with a
highprofile guy with that salesperson
while the saleserson was sitting in
America and that particular guy was
sitting in Delhi. The Delhi guy reached
there at the dinner shop at the dinner
restaurant for the restaurant and then
the guy actually didn't even reach there
and suddenly a human monitoring system
kicked in the alert system kicked in in
second brain and then we got we went and
reviewed it. The reviewing system that's
that's that's where we went and said hey
this is wrong we should fix it. So
that's where we integrated all these
things. So you should know how much
damage it can have. The client actually
was very pissed off. He got super mad at
us and all that. So you should know that
who gets hurt if something gets wrong.
And if you cannot explain this, every
every project should explain this
because even we as an organization talk
about this a lot. What is my value? What
is my risk associated with it? What
happens if something gets wrong? For
example, loan approval model. Let's say
the value is faster decisions and less
manual work that anybody who wants a
loan they can quickly come in and they
can get it. But still you search about
loans on in India and then you fill it.
It will say hey our team will get back
in 24 hours. Team is definitely using
several systems behind them but they
will they can't say instantly. Then risk
is unfair denial to good customers. If
you just do that with any AI with with
with an AI, it can deny it or it can be
have a regulatory fines as well. This
means we must care about
interpretability and bias, not just
about accuracy. Right. Right. They were
not giving me loans for the very very
long time. So even though I had much
more capacity to pay them off than
anybody in whom who might be applying to
them. Anyways, that's a personal thing.
them. Anyways, that's a personal thing. So
once you have done second you go to the
next thing which is build the smallest
thing that can work. Now what does that
mean is do not start with a huge complex
pipeline. Start with something smallest
baseline that can reasonably work just
like you say right and you have to build
a minimal viable product MVP. So start
something small. Do not say very big
thing. Maybe a simple rule. Maybe a
simple rule or maybe a simple model.
Simple model like linear regression
model or anything. And ship it to the
small group of people. Learn and then
small group of people. Learn and then grow.
Ship instantly. We say right ship as
soon as possible. Learn and grow. Now
you may not apply this into your
projects but whenever you go there you
should document it into this as a
student you should be able to document
this and say hey I've thought about it
my first approach was to doing something
super simple and trust me and trust me
we love people who talk basic at start
to build something super quick in hours
in matter of few hours those set of
in matter of few hours those set of things
for example let's say you want to build
a recommended system for a new app
baseline would be top selling products
in the user's city. Correct? And then
you see okay if I build a recommener
system. So this is an interesting
example. Let's say you build a
example. Let's say you build a recommener
I don't know right recommener system.
What might happen that you build a
baseline. The first baseline can be
top selling
just a simple query in the database
products in the
users city. Then you say okay how much
it increased in percentage of cost which
is to us in revenue or whatever your
matrix we'll come to the matrix but
whatever your matrix would be how what
is the increase and then what you do you
actually go to the more fancy stuff and
then you say that hey can I build
another later which is later if if this
three make sense can I build something
three make sense can I build something like
top selling
in city plus their whatever they have
browsed recently recent browsing and
then what you should do then only you go
to the fancy models only then fancy deep
learning models after it so that you are
not spending a lot you're very carefully
doing step by step and whenever you do
any project for yourself as well I
suggest you to show this to a recruiter
show this that this is what's your
thought process
before of course build the fancy system
as well but show them that this is what
I'm thinking and this is also for the
decision makers that's how we I I
learned the hard way spending 50 lakhs
rupees not kidding we spent a lot of
money into building our stuff learning
the wrong things and then relearning and
all that thing was going on but yeah I I
hope to share with you guys with a good
set of experiences of mine building
second brain so another thing is reflect
with matrix and user impact. So, by the
way, this is the video which I'm
recording at the editing time because I
noticed after this point of time, the
next 30 to 40 minutes were with no audio
for some reason. So, I had to re-record
the whole thing. So, I know it's a
little bit abrupt for you guys, but I
think you guys can handle because we
have completed till this point. We need
to start with the reflecting with matrix
and the user impact as we continue to
learn about this topic. Now what do what
do we really mean by reflect with matrix
and user impact. So let's say that you
launch a model to prioritize customer
support tickets. So you have a business
and you have a multiple uh tickets of
the customers talking about XYZ.
the customers talking about XYZ. Now
what you built a model for that the
model what what it was doing that it was
prioritizing which customer to serve
first. Then what eventually ended up
happening your offline matrix the things
which you have tested in your um I mean
validation and test data sets were
absolutely good that they were ranking
based on the priority but what happened
after the launch high value clients felt
ignored because of their tickets got
mclassified. What happens that most of
your uh the high-v value clients feel
felt ignored. So your matrix said that
we improved
uh based on your performance based on
your offline matrix but what it impacted
the user was the broken trust of highv
value clients. So you see that both of
this goes very hand in hand that you
reflect with matrix but also see how it
is impacting on your users. For example,
your recommendation system if it is not
really working well on the user but if
the matrix that is that it is giving the
right recommendations right but it takes
1 hour to give you another
recommendation but user won't be happy
about that right so you should be able
to reflect with both of the matrix as
well as the impact of the user.
So there are sixword test before you
decide that if a machine learning
problem or whether it is a machine
learning problem or not.
Learn complex patterns existing data
predictions and unseen data. Right? So
what is learn? Learn is basically the
system that improves from from example.
So if the system does not need to
improve from examples
over time then maybe it is not a machine
learning problem or maybe it's not a AI
problem. So machine learning or AI
systems really works well where the
system can get better as it sees more
data. So for example, spam filters that
learns from what users mark as spam and
not spam is machine learning because
over the time the data keeps on
improving and the systems keeps on
improving based on the data which is
provided. But let's say that do you need
a machine learning problem to detect uh
whether this email is from a blocked
address or not? It a fixed list of
blocked email address is not a learning
problem. It is just a rules. So you
should be able to see that you are able
to learn from the incoming data and
improve rather than you you would be
able to simply build it from the if and
else statements.
Another word is complex that your
relationships are not obvious. For
example, for example, let's say you want
to predict a price of a used car. U
which is let's say that you want to
predict tomorrow's temperature in a room
from one sensor is simple. For example,
that if you want to predict tomorrow's
temperature, it is very simple like you
can just put out some rules. But if you
want to predict, but if something is
pretty complex in general that if you
can write simple rules for that, solve
the task, use the rules. But you would
you would need to pull out your AI and
machine learning skills when your
relationships between input and output
are messy. For example, if you're
detecting somebody has a cancer or not,
input will be very very different. In
input will be not so obvious that you
can just see and detect whether the
person has a cancer or not. It should
not the relationship should not be
obvious that you can quickly build some
uh rules out of it. Right? You should be
able to learn those complexity out
able to learn those complexity out there.
Then we have patterns. Now what is
patterns? The third word is the
patterns. Machine learning is all about
finding a patterns in the data. For
example, if you use npr random and
generate the lot of random data sets, it
is a random structure. So machine
learning will not get anything out of
it. So why data science and machine
learning is such a big space? Because it
tries to understand or know about the
pattern and get it go ahead. So if the
particular problem is not existed to
some pattern, it won't be able to it it
won't be easy for anybody to go ahead.
So let's say if you're trying to predict
next lottery number is completely
pointless because the numbers are
essentially going from the random
distribution. But if you predict which
customer will buy again is useful
because you know that the customers are
usually following this patterns, right?
So patterns is another more important
thing. Then you have existing data. Now
let's say you must have already some
data that connects inputs to outputs or
at least you can collect it soon. If you
do not have existing data to learn from,
you won't be able to train a machine
learning model on top of it.
Predictions. The f the fifth word is
predictions which is machine learning is
most useful when you need to estimate
something before you act. For example,
if you want to predict whether the
person has a cancer or not, you should
be able to predict before the person
dies. Right? If you want to predict
whether the transaction is fraud or not,
you should be able to do that before the
fraud happens. If you want to optimize a
particular price before you set the new
price, you want to estimate the demand
at this price before you set the new
price. So you should be able to estimate
you should be able to the machine
learning is most useful when you can
estimate something before you act not
after it.
Then we have unseen data training and
serving share the same world. For
example, whatever model which you have
trained on, let's say that uh in India
you trained a cancer detection system
and India guys have a different diet and
all. Now if you're using the model which
has been trained on Indian people to
detect cancer in American people it
won't perform well. So whatever data
which you have trained on you it it
should be also in the while while using
that model serving is basically when you
put that in production and when people
will actually use it it should share the
same world rather than America and India
at this point of time
right so you can you so if a problem
fails one or more words be suspicious
about using machine learning and get
these seven checklist sorted and
whenever you write any project make sure
that Every project goes through these
three things. So any project you should
view through three lenses if the if if
it is worthy or not. The first lens is
value gain. Second lens is operational
fit. Third lens is risk profile. So what
does the what does these lens says? So
first lens is about value. So how much
extra value does ML create over the
baseline. So for example, you already
have some system ready. If you integrate
ML into it, how much value will it
create? How much money? Value can be in
terms of money, how much it can be in
terms of time or safety or user
experience. We need to be able to
estimate how much value it should be
able to give. For example, the
recommended system that increases
clickthrough rate from 5% to 6% may be
huge value from Netflix or Google type
of companies. But if you have a website
which has got only 100 users going from
5 to 6% would not make much difference.
So you should be able to estimate how
much it will be valuable for the
company. Then you have an operational
fit. Now what does operational fit
means? Operational fits is
can the team build, deploy and maintain
the model in their real environment. For
example, a hospital wants a deep model
to read X-rays but they don't have any
MLOP stack, no GPU support and no no one
to maintain models. So it is not technic
technically possible for an hospital and
that's why you see a lot of hospital
does not have these systems ready. They
are trying to get it but they don't have
right now. So operationally something in
the in those kind of hospitals a more
simpler system out there where a human a
rule which checks the x-rays and then
the human double review from as the
first step
and the third one is the risk profile is
what happens when the model gets wrong
especially let's say a model that
approve a model that recommends music
has low risk if it goes wrong but a
model that approves surgery for patients
has extreme extremely high risk that's
why you see AI in healthcare is so and
so sophisticated in how it should be
handled so we will treat so the this is
the third lens from you should view a
machine learning portfolio
so there are some case studies which I
want to go through case study number one
language translation leap so language
translation is a full of subtle
structure grammarss items tone context
and all interact so it is very very
complex patterns. You won't be able to
write handwritten rules. You won't be
able to do that. So we pass the first
step. It is a particularly machine
learning problem where machine learning
would be pretty well mattered over
there. We have abandoned data from for
many language pairs. We have millions
and millions of sentence pairs. So we
have existing data as well.
We can instantly know when when users
see a translation, they can often tell
quickly if it looks correct or wrong. So
you usually get a label basically if it
is good or bad instantly rather than you
have to wait for a prolonged period of a
time and it has a clear value over
rules. So if a rule-based system exists,
it will not perform well, right? If else
will not perform well in the language
translation, but ML will eventually help
in user experience. the fastest, how
well it will translate into revenues and
much more.
Another case study is imagine a super
chain market so supermarket chain builds
a model to forecast daily demand of
bread in each store. So their offline
matrix are great. They launch it and see
early benefits. Now what happened? World
changed and inputs drifted. So they
launched a good model. It was good. But
world changed and input shifted. So what
does it mean? Let's say a new competitor
opens nearby or a festival period
arrives or a lockdown change behavior.
So what happens the input behavior of a
because what was it what it was trained
on was very different what it is
serving. So world changed. There was no
early warning that input is being
drifted. It is a waste and loss sales
drifted. It is a waste and loss sales followed.
Right. So because there was no
monitoring that the data has been
changed the people the serving world has
been changed. So as a result some store
over orderer when waste products because
they have predicted the wrong demand.
So forecasting is very sensitive to
world changes. So monitoring and
retraining based on new data strategy
are very critical.
Then as we have explained the recommener
systems as well case number C and as we
have explained the case number D. So you
can go through this uh by your own as
well and uh other case studies please
feel free to read the we have added
multiple case studies. We'll come to
this operational checklist.
So there are some operational
constraints checklist as well. As you
can see that there are multiple examples
where we were figuring out whether it is
a machine learning problem or not or
whether it is how how do we classify
whether it is a machine learning problem
or not.
Right? So same way we have u
Right? So same way we have u um
several checklist for operational
constraints. So latency budget per
request for example
search any recommendation system should
be able to decide instantly but deciding
whether a particular to whether to give
a loan to a particular person can be bit
late for 5 minutes 10 minutes because
there people can wait to get a loan of
million dollars but here because we are
viewing reals or Tik Tok we should be
able to get it instantly or get the
search results instantly. So how many
milliseconds do we have per request
that is another thing throughput targets
and autoscaling plan for example a
festival sale can actually push traffic
10 times does the does our system scale
yes or no then do we have any privacy
and governance needs there lot of times
there are regulations like GDPR HIPPA
compliance lot of in healthcare apps
like healthcare applications cannot just
send raw medical data to any third party
model without safe agreements and
safeguardments. So privacy and
governance concerns. Then we have
interpretability need for stakeholders.
For example, if doctors, lawyers
or regulators ask why, you must have
some answer. For example, if it predicts
something, it should be able to explain
why it has predicted that. That's why a
lots of LLMs cannot pred explain why
they have done that. Instead, a more
statistical and evidentical approach
which classic machine learning offers
still marks the uh win a winner in all
these race and maintainability and cost
of ownership which is who will maintain
this model one year from now on. How
often will it need to be retrained? What
is the monthly cost of the infra human
time storage?
So these are the some of the checklist
which you should again look after while
building a project. Then you should also
have a feedback loop because you cannot
just keep on because it is a
continuously evolving planet. So first
of all label source and arrival time.
Where do label come from and how long do
they take to arrive? For example, if you
are building a
a recommendation system, you can quickly
see that okay, person actually viewed
that for a longer period of a time. So
if the person viewed for more than 5
seconds, then the recommendations was
good. But if the person did not view the
for more than 5 seconds, then the
recommendations recommenders were bad.
But for loan default lame whether the
person will default or not the actual
ground truth will arrive if and only if
when the person will default right. So
you would be able to know that what is
the source of the label where are we
getting from and where it is going to
arrive so that we can further train our
arrive so that we can further train our model.
And then when labels are slow we often
use proxies for early signals. What does
it proxies means? Proxies when labors
are delayed for example login free. So
let's say you want to predict whether
some whether some user will churn or not
right whether a person customer will
churn or not right. So you see the
person has not logged in for 30 days. If
the person has not logged in for 30 days
then what will happen that okay you can
consider this person as a going to be
churning right but if the person
continuously login for 30 days then you
the person will not churn. So these are
proxies where you can u predict whether
u based on the business context it
should be able to help you out. Now
window for implicit negatives. So window
for implicit negatives in recommended
systems no click after some time as I
say it is treated as an implicit
negative. If you're showing some ads and
nobody is clicking on that you consider
that the person is not interested. So
basically the recommended system was
bad. So that's why window for implicit
negatives that we uh what is the window
which for 5 seconds for 10 seconds
depending upon the business context
especially in the recommended systems
these are usually very helpful then how
labels flow back to the learning. So
model predictions it gets to the user
behavior. So basically model predicts
something model predicted the person
like will like this particular reel. The
user behavior stayed on that for more
than 10 seconds which means our implicit
negatives was a proxy was predicted the
person liked it. So it created a logs
after logs the labels was created the it
went in the training data and the new
data was trained new model was retrained
based on the existing data. Very simple
right? So we'll learn about this
feedback loop and much more. So
basically whatever slides I'm showing
you right now I'm not rushing but
actually every slide is a whole 1 hour
lecture. So I'm not uh
going much more detail because you'll
see a more and more sophisticated
examples in these two itself.
Guard rails for feedback loops. So
feedback loops can amplify bias. If you
only show popular items they get more
popular. You never add. So if YouTube
only shows popular creators,
no budding creators would be uh getting
ahead. So you you need to be able to
show new stuffs as well.
There are some of the failure patterns
which you observe. Again, you will learn
a more about this in very detailed. Um
but I will quickly go through this so
that you can actually learn about that
in a pretty quick way
which is training and serving diverge.
Whatever you have trained on is
completely different than what model is
serving. If the model is trained to
predict cancer whether the person has a
cancer or not in India, if it goes and
predicts some uh something in uh
America, it will not work. Then feature
leakage in offline data. For example,
let's say that you have the um you you
have let's say that in the when you were
training your model, right? Um
your testing data was also present into
the training data while it was being
trained. So what it will happen your
model will cheat right because it
already has u the leakages basically the
which predicts the final output. So
feature leakages should not happen. One
of the example is whether a support
ticket will be escalated and using and
it is using some of the uh testing data
as well as the target variable itself.
very common. I have seen that even at
second brain we were using final uh
target variables itself.
Then data distribution shifts over time.
World changes, user behavior changes,
pricing changes, policy changes all the
time. So if you do not detect the
shifting data data drifting over the
time, it will not work. Over reliance on
a single metric. So if you change one
metric, you might hurt others. For
example, maximizing click-through rate
can reduce user trust. For example, if a
particular creator every time does crazy
tries to optimize his thumbnail to
optimize his CTR, what will happen?
He'll try to show some clickbait. So, of
course, he'll lose the trust, right? So,
just relying on single matrix is another
silent patterns to actually go ahead.
So there's one baseline first rule and
we have a dedicated lecture in part one
itself where you will see that entire 1
hour lecture is building a first. So we
say right start with something super
simple and then build on top of it. So
before fancy models ship a very simple
baseline in production. It may be a rule
or it may be a completely random or
maybe a simple linear or nonlinear
model. For example, if you want to
predict whether a you want to build a
system where it predicts whether a
customer will churn or not, baseline can
be if a user has not logged in for 30
days, mark it as a high risk that the
person is going to be churning out.
Then instrument matrix. So add logging
matrix from day one. Count how many
predictions you made, what actions were
followed, what outcomes were built. So
this builds the found. So you eventually
build a data from your baseline model
that you predicted X actually happened Y
given input
ABC right. So you keep on logging every
single thing. So your model predicted
based on these inputs your model
predicted high risk but it they they
they were they actually renewed the
subscription. Right? Then use the
baseline to collect the data and define
baseline to collect the data and define successes.
Understood? Now the go and not now all
six words clear value feedback loop
constraints. If any of these things are
missing you should not u and you should
not consider if they if you have missing
data you have long feedback and high
risk constraints huristic needs the gold
bank enough. So you can do this
activity. This is a one pager template
which you should use all the time uh
from this lecture so that you can also
apply whatever you have learned. As I
said no to the ML when the world says
yes. Say yes to the ML when the data and
constraints say yes. So post about this
one pager on your social media as well
as in the group. Um you'll also have a
particular discord community as well. So
we'll see what community we are having.
You can find all the information. It is
not done by me. It is done by my team
who takes care of the community
management and all. So let's go to the
next one because from next one this is
just a generic lecture by the way the
next ones we'll go on every particular
detail in much more detail with much
more in-depth examples so that you can
actually get to know what we are dealing
with. So the big idea of this lecture
is most machine learning models fails at
the definition time itself. You might be
thinking that most machine learning
models they fail when when it is about
uh having the wrong models or fancy
maths or using the wrong models or
architectural problems but they do not
fail because of those things. They fail
much earlier into the designing machine
learning systems. And this is super
important to understand because when the
problem whatever problem you're trying
to solve it it's self so badly defined
for example you asking the wrong
question you are evaluating it the wrong
way or you are or you just have your
data wrong even if you use the best
model you won't be able to achieve
anywhere. So we talk about right for you
to perform very well and study very
well, you need to be able to quickly
understand the
procedures for okay, you need to be
sleeping well, you need to be eating
well. If you do not do that and any any
of it well, you do not really get your
desired outcome or you're able to study
well. The same way machine learning
projects works in that particular way.
The way it works that we want to make
sure that whatever model we want to use,
we want to feed the model in the right
possible way. So if you have the model
M, we want to feed in the right inputs
I1, I2 all the way around to the in so
that it can perform whatever it has to
perform. And in today's industry when
you talk about the these big giants like
chipoen and all these uh top MLOps
leaders talking about this particular
thing which is most machinery models do
not even succeed for that. I want to
take one example to help you better
understand this. So at second brain labs
we we started building this LinkedIn
automation engine where you can deploy
our AI agent on your LinkedIn and it
reaches to your potential buyers and
helps you sell your product.
Initially we thought okay can we deploy
n number of automation solutions I mean
deploy so much of an AI work there but
then things started to turn around
things started to to not work in our
favor it eventually we were giving it
the wrong inputs itself we were not even
we didn't had enough data to build that
product at that particular point of time
so our first AI initiative actually
failed at that particular point of time
For example, we are we were building a
system that given that let's say there's
a person and we want to make we want to
sell a product P to this person. So SBL
job was our AI job was to SBL job was to
reach out to this person with the
product P and then try to get money out
of it. So initially we thought okay we
can just deploy our AI wrapper that can
eventually go from here to here by doing
some prompt engineering. But then we
realized oh my god it is using an
outdated methods to reach out to this
person or to sell this person. it didn't
had the right sales tactics to convince
this particular person and that is all
about we are talking about
is this particular pro this particular
AI is not able to reach there and where
we failed in defining that what AI
should be able to do those input data
and that's why we and that's why we keep
on calling that even the best GPTs or
you know best large models or anybody
cannot save you if you do not have the
right thing so let's Take an example.
Let's say a team wants to predict churn.
A team wants to predict whether this
particular user will churn or not. It is
a classic B2C example. So they label
churn as did not login for 7 days. For
example, they eventually thought in into
their data system when they were
building the system of the data they
labeled churn for a particular user U1
they label churn. If the user did not
log in for more than 7 days then the
person will churn right did not log into
a particular software. So but their
product people use it once a month
anyway. So what they designed they said
that if a user did not loged in for a
particular day we will while creating
the data set we will consider them as a
they will most likely churn and then
we'll use to create our model. This is
an insane example but the product was
meant to be used once a month anyway. So
the model what it say model said okay
anybody who is not getting for login for
more than 7 days we are done. So it
learned to predict something that was
not real because the the the the
business said if it is more than say if
it is more than 7 days not login we will
consider that is a churn that that was
the data which was created. So on the
wrong data the model was trained because
the product was meant to be used once a
month anyway. So business said the model
is useless but what really happened is
that the failure actually happened when
the team was creating the data when when
the team was creating the thing they
they should have understood the uh
business aspect better they would have
understood the user aspects better. So
whenever you do this project, whenever
you build any project in our live
interactive environments which you will
be of course working on, I would
strongly suggest to put this framework
into your thing and quickly ask that
question in your readme file so that the
recruiter or even you as a businessman
should be able to understand that okay I
first of all need to see the business
context and see if it actually makes
sense or not.
So if you spend real time framing the
problem precisely half of your work is
honestly done into this real world and
that's why the birth of this prompt
engineering comes into the play that
let's say that you want to use AI to
improve sales right you want to use AI
to improve sales now the problem which
we say okay we will use AI to improve
sales that is a bad framing but let's
Say we put it like this. Given a lead
given a lead attributes at the time of a
first contact predict probability that
they book a demo within 7 days so that
the STRs can prioritize follow-ups. So
one of the system which we were building
is that let's say you have n number of a
buyers. We wanted to sell to buyer one
buyer two buyer three four and five. So
our system so our bad framing could have
been that let us use AI to improve sales
right this is a complete wrong statement
to make what about we say that given a
particular lead profile LinkedIn profile
so we'll identify how likely this lead
will purchase and then we will try to
put them in a particular probability
that this person is likely to be 0.90%
90% the person will buy 80% the person
will buy and then the sales executive
can prioritize these leads more than
anybody's else. So if you truly
understand we're using an AI to improve
the sales, we're you using um in instead
of uh use saying that use AI to improve
the sales, we're talking about a good
framing of the problem that what input
we'll be giving so that the model will
be doing this which can eventually lead
to an X outcome.
This is the most important word I said
right now. Right? So I want you to make
notes out of it as well before I speak
up. So the matrix which you choose will
shape the behavior of your product. So
if you optimize only clickthrough rate,
you will get clickbait. And if you only
optimize only watch time, you will get
addictive content. You may get addictive
content. So let's say that
the matrix which you want to choose will
decide the product which you will get
out of it. So what does it mean? So
let's say a delivery app optimizes one
on the number of deliveries per hour. So
a delivery app is there I don't want to
take any name and they want to say they
want to improve the revenue by number of
want to improve the revenue by number of deliveries
per month right sorry per hour
per hour.
So what it will happen it will push the
drivers or it will push the drivers to
drive faster so that they can take more
orders drive faster and they'll be
risking their I mean life. So if they
add a guardrail matrix on it which is a
very very important term which is
guardrail matrix which is an accident
rate and then the product behavior will
start to change. So if the delivery app
so for example blinket and all these
companies what they're trying to do
right now they're saying okay I want to
take more and more deliveries but I want
to make sure that the that the accident
rate also goes down. So I want to make
sure that I hire more delivery guys so
so that the number of a delivery KPI and
these two KPIs are in the certain range
we don't want to say anything. The same
way we want to make sure that any matrix
which we choose we that actually help us
to design a particular behavior we want
to have. So the guardrails are very
important. For example, let's say if
you're building a particular system you
want to put X number of guardrails. I'll
tell one I'll tell one example of second
brain labs itself. SBL actually booked a
dinner meeting with one of my client and
it was a very big prospect in our thing
but the client was in Netherlands and uh
the thing was in India what eventually
ended up happening that AI thought okay
we'll set up a inerson meeting in some
rest restaurant but the guy was there so
we we thought okay the guardrill over
there could have been that okay before
setting up any schedule we would we
should have been always and always
looking for a system but eventually
pauses and looks for the human
interaction before booking any uh
in-person meetings that could have been
guardrail which could have been helped
us. So and in both ways the prospect
would have been happy the client would
have been happy and everybody would
would have been happy. Our so our goal
was that we want to get maximum number
of a meetings for that particular client
maximum number of a sales calls to get
that sales calls we wanted to make sure
that we we put a we didn't put a
guardrail we didn't put a guardrail of
if the person books a inerson meeting
please go no it should have been some
guardrails to prevent that as well. So
every KPI which you measure should be
guarded with some matrix which you want
to optimize for.
So turn messy ideas into clear
prediction tasks. So usually people come
up with messy ideas. We want smarter
recommendations in our system. We want
AI for hiring. So people usually come up
with a very very vague
problem. And this is another thing which
I want you to list out on your project
is whenever you build anything or
whenever you opt for any interactive
sessions which you'll be of course doing
in this course you eventually end up
doing is something super interesting.
What you'll be doing is somebody says we
want smarter prediction.
Smarter prediction, right?
We want AI for sales. We want AI for
hiring. You you should be able to put
that into a prediction tasks at least in
or what should be an optimal output. For
example, your job is to translate that
into a clear prediction question and
that is one of the most important aspect
of it. For example, predict the
probability this applicant will pass our
coding test. Predict the probability
that this buyer will be buying my
particular solution. Right? And then
eventually that is a when you use AI for
sales, you you want better sales. Now
better sales is a derivative of what
you'll be doing. So for example, if you
can prioritize the hot leads, basically
the people who are most likely to buy
your services, of course you're helping
the business. So you should be able to
do that task as well. And then you you
need a ladder that connects the business
outcome to the model matrix. So at the
top money, retention and safety in the
middle product matrix like click-through
conversion and the bottom which is
offline matrix like AU and RMS. So what
does that mean?
Let's say that you have something like
this funnel and I don't call this a
funnel as well but let's say that you
have a ladder of matrix. I'll not put it
something like a funnel because it seems
that it reduces the importance but we'll
do something like this.
So the first way of course you want to
make sure how much money you're getting,
how much retention and safety that is
the first things which you will track in
any of the things. Then what you will
track you will track it is a derivative
of product matrix. What is the product
matrix looks like? what is the
click-through rate which eventually
helps you into all of this engagement
rates and all that and at last offline
metrics like AU RMSSE accuracy score and
all that so this is the derivative of
this so it's like you are getting at the
top to the down basically if the bottom
does not connect to the top you're
optimizing in vacuum so if this does not
indicates this if if if they do not
connect with with each other so these
are your machine learning um offline
matrix. These are your product matrix
and these are your business matrix. You
should be able to connect every single
one of it across the metric.
So when your loss function and threshold
should reflect actual costs. For
example, in cancer screening missing a
positive case is far more costly than a
false alarm. For example, you built a
cancer monitoring system. Cancer
monitoring system. What this cancer
monitoring system says if the person
comes and this this this cancer
monitoring says that the person is uh
not having a cancer but the person had a
cancer it's a far more alarming case
than it is than this person is not
having cancer but still said he has a
cancer so that the test could have been
done. So here recall is more important
than precision right. So you should be
able to choose objectives that what
risks I can take into what system. For
example into the recommendation system
you can sometimes show the wrong
recommendations as well. It will not
hamper a lot. Right? But here you cannot
do anything wrong. So you should be able
to balance your objectives pretty well
that match your real costs and
that match your real costs and objectives.
Now we come to the next topic which is
observing the constant context and
constraints and that is another
important aspect to it which is problem
framing includes contexts and
constraints who uses this model on what
device with what latency with what
budget under which regulations. Now this
is super duper important. So whenever
you frame a problem of a particular
project and this you should include this
in your read me as well.
It includes
who uses this model.
Then it includes which device because
you cannot deploy large stuff onto
something which is so how much somebody
can wait. If it is a recommended system,
it takes 1 minute to u push out the
recommendation. Nobody will watch it.
And what regulations that you cannot
store your data of your users in a
certain aspect or in a certain things.
So you should be able to observe the
constructs and the constraints related
to it while defining a particular
problem. While defining a particular
problem. While defining a particular problem.
So as an ML engineer you are a
negotiator of tradeoffs
for example accuracy versus latency you
can so let's say you put up on a table
and you say that what matters us more
accuracy or latency in recommendation
system you will say my latency matters
most most act accuracy we can play off a
little but in cancer screening system
you want accuracy to be there and not
latency too much but regulation to be
there Right? What is a risk versus
speed? Performance versus
interpretability. So you should be able
to stand in front of a non-technical
stakeholder and you should be able to
explain these forces into a very simple
language and that's what makes you
actual ML engineer and data scientist
who actually helps actually businesses
to take better decisions because they
are able to not build what businesses
says they are able to ask these
questions or understand the business
objectives and then build the system
accordingly. You will build several
systems as well. We'll take several
examples in your interactive sessions
where you're literally seeing what
matters us most. Accuracy versus
latency, performance versus
interpretability, risk versus speed.
What are we looking at? So, you should
be able to explain those forces and the
trade-offs and the businesses should be
able to tell you that what you want to
focus on if you're not a business acumen
guy. That's that's why I say these data
scientists and business analyst and all
these guys are actually great
businessmen because they they turn out
to be great businesses because they
question everything. They think a lot
before doing anything.
Now
do not design a giant end state. Build a
smallest thing that is measurable. Again
I'm saying build the smallest test which
is measurable
and testable which we call this MVP and
I want you to do this in projects as
well. Whenever you design any project
whenever you build any project always
make sure that you are building some MVP
out of it first step. So, so that
recruiters or anybody sees it that you
tried first of all maybe a rulebased
baseline plus a matrix dashboard for so
so that you can get what happens. So
I'll tell you we were building a lead
scoring system so that given a
particular buyer buyer one buyer two
buyer three want to see that we want to
give a score that how much this person
will uh likely how how likely this
person will purchase our stuff.
So we tried a very simple thing. We
tried a simple score which is we will
give + one if the company size is
greater than 50. We'll give another plus
one if the company if the job title
includes founder or director. We'll
another plus one if the location is
target country. And we will give keep on
giving plus one for several signals.
And then we said okay this is and then
we evaluated that how well we scored our
leads. And then we compared this with
our LLM result. And then we say okay
here is the baseline thing. We can
measure it. We can test it. We can also
see that does this helps in in
increasing a little bit of our sales. It
did. Okay. Now we can go ahead and
implement a large scale model into it.
So always build the smallest thing and
measurable and testable path
and reflect using the right matrix. So
after you ship reflect using the matrix
ladder. Does this particular MVP the
baseline which I built can actually help
me? Can
um my business improved? Did the model
matrix improve? Did that translated into
a product matrix? If I did that scoring
scoring thing
while building MVP, was it helpful in my
business matrix? Was it helpful in
prioritizing those leads and then that
leaded in money? And then if we include
LLM, how much would that percentage of
increase? That's why you see all these
guys are able to quickly tell you uh
these framings.
So how do you define a particular
So how do you define a particular problem?
Given input X, you need to predict
target Y for user or system Z at
decision time T. to optimize business
outcome B. This is a very very simple
formula which you should be able to use
while designing that system or while
framing that system because this is
ultimately that's what matters which is
X in this case is what we know at a
decision time. It must match reality.
You cannot use data that you only know
later. So given the customers browsing
in the last 30 minutes plus their device
type and location right so we are saying
x is the basically inputs for example
again I'll repeat so that you know about
it given the customer's browsing history
in the chrome browser in the last 30
minutes plus wherever their device type
is in the location predict whether they
will purchase in that session or not
right given input x predict whether they
will purchase the things or not or
predict the probability of the purchase.
Who will actually use now the system for
a user who will actually use this
prediction? Maybe a sales rep you will
use this system. A recommendation engine
will use this system. A pricing system
will know will use this system. So for
the sales team, you might want to show
hot, warm, cold label based on how much
time they've spent into their thing. For
an automated system, you might output a
numeric probability and in the next 5
seconds, it pops out a discount code for
increasing their decision time to
purchase a particular thing.
So when the decision is made at a
decision time t, so when is the decision
made at a page load or a loan
application or something? So the moment
transaction is swiped at a point of
sale, you cannot use a previous behavior
as a feature because the sale happened
and then you connect that to a business
because that's also important to reduce
the churn in the next 90 days or
increase upsell revenue by 10% by
recommending new things. So you optimize
the business outcome B and that's how
you should be able to quickly tell that
what I'm going to say.
So what action will use this prediction?
If this prediction does not drive any
action, it has no value. So ask yourself
exactly what action is taken based on
the model output. If the churn risk is
high, you send a retention offer or
assign a human to call to offer. So if
this prediction is made, what you want
the user to do, what you want the
business to do, it should not be that
okay, I know the person will churn. You
should do something about it, right? So
you should be instantly sending them a
retention offer or assign a human to
instantly call the customer and say that
hey listen here we go
and who owns this action. So someone
must be responsibly for acting on the
prediction what model has produced
whether it can be product team whether
it can be sales team operations team or
an automated service. If the nobody owns
the responsibility to use those
predictions, the model sits unused and
it will never impact any business.
Now ask yourself what happens if the
model goes wrong? What happens if what
happens on a false positive? What
happens on the false negative? That
informs your threshold and risk
attitude. For example, for fraud model,
false positive blocks a good customer
and annoys them. False negative lets
fraud pass and loses money. What can we
afford? So what happens if the model is
going wrong and if we can build some
guardrails around it and what is a roll
back path? So if the model be misbehaves
how do we turn it off or fall back to
our baseline simp simpler systems. So
you should always have a roll back path
and you should build this into your
projects to showcase to your thing. Even
SBL has a roll back path. If to tomorrow
open AI and all these big giants closes
we are back to our simpler stuffs which
will work all the way around. So if the
model performance drops, you should be
able to roll back to a more simpler or
something goes wrong, you should be able
to roll back to more simpler uh systems
a lot.
So think of this. So what is a matrix
ladder? Think of this as four levels.
Level one business outcome, level two
which is product success matrix, level
three model matrix and level four
feature and data quality matrix. So what
does this mean? Business outcome is
money, risk, satisfaction. That is the
business outcome. So you evaluate on the
you evaluate your ML systems on these
outcomes. Then level two is okay.
Product success, click through,
conversion, time to resolve, evaluation,
your model which I was telling you
prior, AU, R, F1, RMSSE curve. So any
serious ML project should connect these
four. I'll help you to I'll help you to
understand with the help of an example.
So let's say you are building an email
classification system which is um um uh
you are running an email campaign. So if
you are able to do it well you get a
you are able to do it well you get a profit
profit from
email campaigns. That is the first thing
that should connect to revenue
per email sent by your AI.
Right? That should connect to another
thing of AI writing the right message so
that it is not getting to the right. So
A of the open email classifier. So it is
sending to the right one. And then you
have the feature and data quality matrix
which is percentage of row missing with
missing domain and all. So it should
connect all these matrix one by one. All
these matrix ladder one by one to be
able to do any outcome.
Northstar and guardrails another
important thing. So you choose one
matrix one main matrix as your north
star. This is where the matrix everyone
watches and understands for anything.
For example for you might not be able to
explain for to a lot of stakeholders
like that but for a recommener system
maybe weekly watch time per active user
on Instagram. So that is your one m one
main matrix which everybody will be
watching and understanding and then of
course your job is to go deeper into the
matrix ladder which I just talked about
and then also choose two or three
guardrail matrix that must not get
worse. For example, guardrails can be
daily active users and the number of a
complaints, right? So, you should be
putting several guardrails daily active
users daily and number of complaints. Is
it increasing or decreasing? Just like
that I told you a story about SBL, we
put a guardrail of literally a human
sitting behind sometimes. And then hard
constraints that must never be violated.
So, some things are non-negotiable. For
example, minimum precision in fraud
detection or maximum error in medical
device. We want to make sure that if the
person does not have a cancer,
we can choose to say yes, the person has
a cancer. But if the person has a
cancer, we cannot choose to say that
person does not have a cancer. Right? So
heart constraints that must never be
heart constraints that must never be violated.
So what is so how should be the label
plan in the feedback window. So before
you train know exactly where your labels
will come from user clicks human reviews
systems logs survey answers and all
that. So you should know where you're
coming from. If you're already using
some online available data set you
should be able to but when you work with
actual companies you'll be knowing that
we collect data. For example, we log
every of our second brain chat and we
give how good the chat happened. So that
is a system locks or you conduct some
surveys or you have some data training
surveys or you have some data training pipelines.
So how much time between prediction and
label? So how long label takes to
arrive? For example, if the customer has
to churn, you said okay, you analyzed a
particular behavior and if the person
did not loged in for the thing behavior,
the customer lo did not log in for 7
days and then you said okay the the
person churned but then after 2 months
you realize the the actual the actual
ground truth the person did not churn
right. So you should be able to know for
how how much time it will take for me to
gather all these um uh things. For
example, recommendation system somebody
watches for more time good instant label
but loan default labels will come after
years have the person defaulted.
So in many systems if a user did not do
something within a certain time we treat
this as a negative. So if the user did
not click an email within 7 days treat
it as a no no click. So you must define
those implicit negatives we are looking
those implicit negatives we are looking for
and then you draw the full loop.
Prediction goes into the user behavior.
User behavior is getting logged. Logging
actually gets in the labels. Labels
actually being prepared for the training
data and training data is actually being
used for the new model. So I'll write
this over here as well.
prediction.
Then you have user
Then you have user behavior
and then you have your logging
and then you have your
and then you have your labels
that leads to
training data that leads to new model.
So this is the whole thing which you
actually flow.
So what is offline matrix for you to
understand? Offline matrix is those
matrix which is a classic ML matrix
which you learn as well. So accuracy is
fragile with class imbalance. For
example, if a classes are imbalanced,
accuracy can lie to you. For example,
with 99% negatives, predicting negative
always gives you 99% accuracy. So you
should be able for for example, let's
say fraud detection with.5% fraud rate.
A dumb model that says no fraud always
have a 99.5%
accuracy because it always says no fraud
but is useless, right? So you should be
able to it's a very fragile accuracy
cannot you sometimes people say I have
100% accuracy. It most likely a class
imbalance problem. Well, I don't want to
get into too much of these
terminologies. I suggest you to search
on if you don't know about imbalance
data set and all imbalance basically you
have more bias towards a particular
thing in a classification tasks
for the offline matrix I suggest you use
precision recall F1 and AU. So for a
classification use a set of matrix for
example precision how many predicted
example precision how many predicted positives
were correct.
Recall is how many actual positives you
caught which is how many predictive
precision recall and F1 is balance of
precision and recall so that the
tradeoff is maintained and A is ranking
how much of quality predictions you have
had. So these are the matrix which
people usually use in the
people usually use in the classification.
Then you have something known as
recommendation system sorry regression.
Regression is usually we have several
choices in the into the what we want to
use. For example, you can use MAE RMS
then you have MAP which is eventually
there's certain set of matrix which
actually can be used. So if a large
error is pretty painful predicting 100
instead of thousand you may end up using
RMSSE is more appropriate. So based on
the understanding I suggest you to
because I'm not teaching ML over here.
So I suggest you guys to if you don't
know about each of the things suggest to
learn about each of things and compare
the preparation by value which are then
what works in what situation and same
goes with the recommendation system. For
example over here NDCG which is how good
is the ranking compared to an ideal.
Then you have map which is the average
precision for ranking and hit rate is
did we place a relevant item in the top
five. So these are the recommendation
system ranking and the matrix which you
usually use to optimize into the things.
So you set thresholds by cost of false
positive and false negative. So
sometimes you say I can take an F1 more
I can take a probability of more than
0.5%. If the probability of 0.5% then I
predict. So you should be able to set
that threshold that how much of it you
can hold. For example, in email spam, a
false positive, which means marking real
email as spam, might be more painful
than a false negative. So threshold
might be more conservative. Right? You
choose based on your business decision.
You don't want a important email marked
as a spam when it was an important
as a spam when it was an important email.
Do not choose thresholds by this seems
okay, not by feelings. You used you use
a simple matrix of true positives, false
positives, true negatives, false
negatives in money or time. If I get
more true positives, are am I losing
money? Am I losing time? What risks are
associated? If I lose, so you understand
the balance and you're able to talk with
the decision maker to come to a good
threshold by comparing these matrix with
the money or time and the risk which you
which will be involved, right?
versus and then you have this different
user segments or channels may need
different thresholds. For example, for
high value customers, for someone having
more giving you more than $2,000 per
month, you need to be a little more
careful. For low-risk segments, you can
be more aggressive. For example, fraud
scores for VIP customers versus
anonymous guests. So, you should be able
to align with the segment you're
to align with the segment you're targeting.
calibration which is a good score
reflects true likelihood. So if the
model outputs 0.8 so what it should mean
it should mean about 80% of these cases
are actually positive and that is what
we know as calibration. It is very very
important when you feed scores into the
business rules into real business rules.
Calibrated models enable rational
decisions. So for example, send
expensive manual review if the
probability is greater than 0.3%. Or you
can if you're sending something uh
personalized gift if the person will
likely make most more purchase like more
than 50% then only send the uh some
gifts to them. So, so it helps to make a
rational decisions
and then you have use reliability plots
which is predicted probability versus
actual frequency and matrix like
expected calibration error and all this.
So if your model is overconfident or
underconfident apply calibration methods
like plat scaling or isotonic regression
and all these things which you learn
into the core ML thing but here you you
can actually learn about what is
calibration error. calibration actually
helps you a lot into reflectoring a true
likelihood. For example, if a model
outputs 0.8 or 0.7, it should mean about
80% of these cases are actually positive
or 70% of these cases are actually
positive. So, calibration is a very very
important thing.
Then you have schema range checks. So
check that column exists types match
value false in a certain range for
example in a particular input in a
particular input whenever you give to
the model you want to make sure age does
not crosses 500 so those range check
should happen a mobile number can only
be in certain but mobile number won't be
fed right uh the name could not be to
this this long the description could not
be this long that the description about
should not include any other languages
so those type checks the inputs which
you'll be receiving make sure that these
are in under your control and you're
checking everything that is what we
known as schema checks. Whatever input
goes in it is checking as well and then
you have the monitor percentage of the
missing values. So if suddenly 30% of
the country field is empty something
broke upstream so nobody's providing
anything right. So missingness in the
inputs, drifts in the input. For
example, suddenly I told you example of
ice cream shops, right? Suddenly you
start to see that uh there is a decrease
the market respond. There are too cold.
So nobody's buying ice cream, right?
Nobody's buying ice cream but they're
buying another thing which is um hot
water. So people will buy hot water but
your model was trained on the previous
thing. So drift happened. So drifts on
the inputs of how so that actually helps
you to explain how people are
understanding a particular thing.
And then you understand that you use
statistical tests or simple visual text
to ensure that feature distribution do
not slice silently change in production.
So if they do your model will not be
valid. So I'll tell you one example
which I told you in the last lecture as
well that if your invent if your
inventory has v_sub_1 v_sub_2 v3
suddenly people in your data said people
were buying v_sub1 v2 more than v3 but
suddenly people started buying v3 but
your model is not trained on that right
so your inputs are changing so the
distribution shifts are changing that
should alert you instantly the
distribution is changing
and then we have the prediction
distribution stability so if the sudden
Finally almost everything is predicted
as high risk. If something is just
surge, right? You see some anomaly.
So you should be able to quickly
So you should be able to quickly identify
and then you have the fairness and
stakeholder trust. Decide which group
you care about fairness point of view.
For example, by religion, language and
age group. Right? So you should be able
to define those sensitive things. It
should not be your ML your AI model
should not output something harmful
towards a particular religion. You you
you'll be thinking about it. GPT and all
these open AAI big guys have spent a
billions of dollars into making sure
that the sensitive topics are not
touched because if these sensitive
topics are touched, we have a potential
to produce World War II as well. Right?
So the sensitive topics has to be very
carefully handled. Especially in second
brain as well, we have put a lot of
brain as well, we have put a lot of guardrails.
Same way you have you measure
performance per slice. So what if if
this gets wrong, right? What if that
gets wrong? So decide what gaps are
acceptable and what triggers can need an
investigation. For example, if the model
sometimes says um wrong thing about a
particular product and corrects us
later, it is acceptable. But if the
model says hey you are a it says
something about a religion it is not
acceptable. So that should give you an
investigation right away. So escalation
and what is acceptable gaps and
exhalation parts and all of this has to
built into your ML system. This cannot
be just like that. That's why you see
that lot of that's that's that's what
MLOps is all about is how can you
operationalize your ML models end to
operationalize your ML models end to end.
So objective is what the algorithm
optimizes on right. So if you learn if
you know about linear regression you
must be knowing about cost function. So
your algorithm will optimize on reducing
those loss loss right. So it's your way
of telling the model this is what I care
about. So your model should be knowing
that this is what from matrix to your
objective should be what algorithm
optimizes. In this case it is a loss
function. So choose loss that matches
your metric and costs. So when you
decided there when you were thinking
about metric ladder and you decided a
threshold and all you should be knowing
that which metric I should be optimizing
on offline metric whether it's f_sub_1
whether it's cross entropy or any other
metric and cost associated with which
loss you'll be looking okay f_sub_1
increases or decreases this is the loss.
So that's the thing and then you have
So that's the thing and then you have this
in some users or segments may be more
important. So in a marketplace large
sellers needs more weight than tiny ones
while training a model. So we should be
able to segment our data as well for the
things that matters more
and then you have this multi-objective
design. So first write down all the
objectives which is revenue, fairness,
latency, user satisfaction and then
understand the conflicts which is some
objective will conflict more revenue
versus less time per page. High click
through versus user well-being. So you
must recognize these tensions of
identify the conflicts which can happen
according to your thing. For example,
you do we want more user? If you see
that Instagram recently have this, you
have spent already lot of time into your
Instagram, please turn it off and come
back later. And they are promoting that
back later. And they are promoting that fairness.
So, choose one objective as primary then
other in then include others as
penalties or constraints. For example,
maximize conversion subject to fairness
constraints. That's what Instagram did.
They maximize clickthrough rate which is
there you being on the platform subject
to that you're not disturbing your
mental health. So use a primary
objective with the secondary and explore
the frontier for trade states. So in
advanced setups it is not needed the the
this frontier shows combinations where
you cannot improve one matrix without
worsening the others. So you should be
able So
what happens that if the Instagram wants
to let's say in Instagram actually is
very bad I mean they are their
engagement rate has dropped a lot right
so they will show through the
stakeholder and stakeholder will say
okay you know what let's remove that
fairness aspect let's worsen that thing
let's make sure that we recommend lot of
good stuffs to the people so people will
spend more time we can accept the mental
health issues so we need to you need to
worsen one matrix to improve the
another one based on the business aspect
or let's say you're getting or too much
of revenue but mental health of students
are going down you're getting a lot of
legal pressure you literally for example
like PUBG um right so after 9:00 p.m.
they're not allowing people to play
Irangle right because people were
getting mad they were getting revenue
but people were getting mad so after 9
p.m. they're not allowing. But if the
user gets slow, they might start to
allow again.
So before you run an experiment, write a
clear hypothesis. If you deploy
model version B, so if you already
deployed model version A, but whenever
you're thinking about a new model, we
expect a conversion to increase by 5%.
Right? For example, decide who or what
is randomized. For example, exposure and
unit of randomization.
What fraction sees the new version? How
are we optimizing the units of the new
ones? Then you connect to your metric
ladder and choose the primary metric the
way you were doing. And then you
estimate how long you need to run the
test to get enough data which is
duration and sample size to prove your
hypothesis that my new model will
increase the version by 5%. Once you
have this document ready, you can
present to stakeholders and all of this
is very very necessary in your project
as well, right? It shows that you have
really you really thought through the
really you really thought through the process
before running live experiments.
Validate on historical data. Replay old
data and see what could have happened.
Run that model version B on whole data
and see how how would have happened.
Never touched during used for final LD.
So hold out sets. So in some cases you
gradually roll out start with 5% of
traffic then 20%, then 50% of the
traffic. So use cohort based thing. This
is all business thing everybody knows
about it. Then be careful when reading
the observational data. So seasonality
like weekends, festivals, promotions can
actually confuse your interpretation. So
always compare the right groups. Do not
compare a weekend fest to weekdays and
high working days. you will be likely
getting your interpretation wrong. So
watch for cocon founders and seasonality
into that thing and all of this you can
mention this in your project while
taking this in account that you have
understood this thing
and after you have launched your thing
track your northstar that one metric
which you want right then business
metric that one metric which everybody
will be looking after then model metric
your offline scores if they degrade over
time then set alerts for drift, missing
values, unexpected distribution, many
failures and all that. Data and feature
health alerts. They'll weekly review and
retrain triggers.
If you want to review and want to fix
something, you quickly do this.
There are some things which you should
be optimizing for. For example, vanity
matrix make you feel good but do not
move like number of a model calls or raw
accuracy in a imbalanced data set. If
the people are just making calls calls
to the model it does not helps if it is
not really. So do not optimize for
vague stuff right it will not help. So
we can say or do not optimize for things
which does not matter. Now if you
optimize a matrix blindly people or
system will learn to game it. For
example pushing clickbait to increase
clicks. So let's say you want to uh
optimize the clickthrough rate. So what
you do you put out the click through
wrong stuff so so so that people click
when people click there they find the
wrong so that that reduces the trust. So
do not have any shortcuts to for example
you do not increase the rate by
providing clickbait stuff
then using information in training that
would not be available at the prediction
time. So it gives the fake high
performance. Always ask would I know
this at a decision time. So data leakage
in a labels and feature and one matrix
you should never be obsessed with one
thing. Use the northstar which is that
one matrix which everybody will be
watching you plus the guardrails right
real products live in a multi-matri
real products live in a multi-matri world.
So you should have this activity which I
want. Pick up one thing. Pick up one
problem. Pair up right. Pick a real
world problem from your work or
imagination. Then write that one
sentence framing using that template
which we have had. Then build the matrix
ladder from business to model. Then
choose one primary objective and two
guardrails which you'll be optimizing.
And then each pair will have one minute
to present. So put it out in the group
whatever you so make make a thing into
the discord server and then you talk
about this template or you send to me as
well. Now we talk a lot about
stuffs. So what I want from you is I
want you to follow this
document which is I would expect from a
serious ML proposal one page focused
connects every single thing whatever we
talked about right now right so when you
do this you actually have implemented
whatever I have taught so take a problem
start doing every single thing whatever
I have taught and do this for every
lecture a document for every lecture and
send to me right this is how you will
learn and we will see that how this all
will connect towards the
So use a one pager, sum the mage,
include a screenshot of your first
simple dashboard layout. It may not need
to be in some coding. Just prompt it
out, b code it and all that and then
enjoy this lecture because every lecture
gives you some business value, some
understanding about a particular thing.
So now we'll be going to our next
lecture and please feel free to view all
these interactive sessions which you
have uploaded as part of the assignments
and coding activities and all that. So
see you around in the next lecture. So
now we have been going through lots and
lots of details like you should have a
good data, you should have a good
monitoring system etc etc. Now what we
will do we will go and deep diver into
these specific context of the words
which I've told you that data can
actually beats clever models. Now then
in the next set of lectures we'll say
one of the main reason your machine
learning models fails is because of the
features. So we'll take every statements
and we will elaborate that in much more
detail with much more richer examples so
that you understand through my
experiences through several examples and
also the coding sessions which you're
doing throughout. So either I will try
to put the coding sessions towards the
end or after every lecture I'll try to
put some coding sessions so that you can
follow along and by the end you will be
having access to another coding session
where where you can build an entire
project by following whatever I have
taught because learning it is very easy
but applying whatever you have learned
is very very hard and that's what we
will also attain via the help of our
will also attain via the help of our practicalities.
So data beats clever models. I've been
speaking about it for a very long time.
So now what does that mean? So in real
So now what does that mean? So in real companies
in most machine learning wins or fails
they they they win or they fail because
of the data. It is not because of the
algorithm. algorithm. We are in a space
even Andrew NG says a lot of time and
Nang says a lot of time that
majorly we have solved till a certain
extent the problem of modeling
but that modeling will not make any
sense if the data itself is wrong. So in
while productionizing machine learning
models while productionizing anything if
you want a model to behave in a certain
way you need to be able to teach the
model in a certain way and that is all
about data.
So in real companies most ML projects
they succeed because of that particular
feature they they succeed because of
data or they fail because of data not
because of the algorithm. For example
let's say you have choose neural
networks you have choose XG boost. So
that particular XG boost on your neural
networks and all that thing will be
trained on your data right now if the
data itself is not correct how it will
make sense. So right so that's why we
make this statement. Now I'll help you
to get some example towards it. So let's
say you want to build a model which
predicts whether the particular user X
will churn or not churn. So churn sorry
uh we'll have this
churn and not churn. So for you to
understand what is churn churn is where
if somebody wants to will be continuing
your service um let's say you run a SAS
application or you or you have some
product whether somebody will keep on
buying your service every single month
just like your Airel right so you have
Airel you have Jio you recharge your
internet every single month so they
monitor the so if you leave out that
particular platform go to another
platform that means you have churned out
for that particular platform
so you build a churn model so let's say
you build churn churn model and you then
you get to something like 0.95 AU which
is an absolutely amazing offline matrix
that everyone is happy that okay you
have got amazing uh mat offline matrix
which is 0.95 so after you have launched
the thing you understood it is useless
why because 30% of the data which you
collected so the data which was used to
train or train this model the 30% of it
the 30% of it were just users who got a
new phone and created a new account.
Which means 30% of the let's say uh
example of an internet service provider
30% of those users which where the churn
model was created what they did they
were just users who did not churned out
they just got a new phone and shifted
that they did they have not churned out
but here we said they turned out so that
created a bias thing. So just just to
make sure that you understand properly
that what eventually happened that 30%
of this data which we trained on out of
this they did not churned out they had a
new phone and brought the same guy
service uh same internet service
provider so technically they didn't
churned out but the model learned that
these guys churned up so the definition
of the data itself was very wrong data
definition was itself is very very wrong
very very wrong so ultimately your model
quality was also absolutely completely
quality was also absolutely completely fake.
So that's why that's one one one of the
example. So if your labels are itself
wrong, if your sampling is biased, if
you do not track where the rows come
from, even the cleverest model will
still behave super badly no matter how
much money or time or effort will which
you invest in the models. So it's all
about having the right data and the
right data checks. And whenever you
build any project, I suggest you to
focus a lot on
showcasing that you have worked on the
data, right? You have we have thought
you have thoroughly understood that okay
is it a sampling bias? Are the labels
correct? Is it making sense in the real
world setting? So let's say you take a
churn prediction data set. So try to
give it to maybe some LLM and try to
understand from the business
understanding as well the domain
knowledge ask GPD itself do you think
that this data the labels make sense in
the real scenario try to go through at
least some some some samples and
understand throughout if you have the
domain knowledge you'll be able to go
things better right that you'll be able
to identify such issues and then list
out that in your report which you'll be
preparing so that people know that you
have thought about this process
then We have something known as data is
not static CSV file. As I say once again
your training data is not just CSV file
which you do fit dot train and then dot
predict you that does not works. Data is
a continuously evolving things which is
a continuously evolving rows in that. So
new feature appears. For example, let's
say that you have a data of uh email
spam detection system. So it detects
whether the email is a spam or not. And
then what eventually ends up happening
that this particular email uh that the
hackers changed their strategy. So the
data which was trained on should die and
the new features and new behavior should
be added on the new shifts of the market
should be added on. So data it is not
really a static it is not really a
static field. It is not really those uh
terms which we use. It is technically
those where new features keeps on
appearing. the old ones keeps on dying,
user behavior changes, a market shifts
keeps on happening and so on.
So you should treat your data more like
a living system connected to your
product. So that that is continuously
being evolved over the period of a time.
And this there is a term which we call
in second brain is AI first approach
that there is an automated system but
there is an intelligent automated
system. So an automated system does what
is told to do but intelligent automated
system actually does what it's of of
course predicting but learns from it as
well and then improves the next time and
that is what the difference between and
we are we are going towards a system
where we focusing more on these things.
So let's say your app adds so let's say
you have an app and that adds a shots
feature that shots on YouTube shorts. So
your recommendation data changes all
around you know for around the trends
because sometimes if you see um the
recommendation system keeps on changing.
So if your training data is just trained
on the initial behavior of a particular
user the model will slowly lose or
become irrelevant over the period of a
time and that eventually treats that
training data as nonsubstantial thing.
So the point is that you should be tra
treating data as a and you should have
some plans towards it and we will study
more that in pretty detail and then you
have the design that since the data is
living it is not a dead system. You
should design that data system
intentionally. For example, how you
sample, how you get the labels, how you
detect drift, how you refresh the data
because data will change anyway. So
better to control it than be surprised.
So you should be able to design the
system of the data that how you are
getting those data, how you are getting
those samples. If the market shift is
happening, how are you detecting it by
monitoring systems and all that, right?
So for example, let's say that how this
system can be designed. Let's say that
you say that okay, instead of saying log
20 samples and later we will see and
later we will see. So here we are just
logging. How about we can convert this
into something like we will sample 20%
per region
and then we will add labels to it and
then we'll keep on retraining the model
via these logs. So why not just keeping
this but continuously training with
whatever these logs are coming in like
20% 30% or whatever so that your model
keeps on being updated as well. That's
what we call as continuous in CI/CD
pattern, continuous integration,
continuous deployment pipelines which we
will also code it out.
So what are the learning goals which we
will go through? You should know how to
choose simple sampling strategies that
keep your data representative for
whatever problem you're trying to solve.
So we learn about those sampling
strategies that how you should sample,
how you should take out the data so that
it is not biased. It should represent
what you're trying to solve. And then
you should know how to answer. For
example, this row in my training data,
where it come from, when did it came
from, and who touched it. So you should
be able to track if something happens
that if your
training data comes in the prediction
one, then your model will be obviously
better because it already has trained on
it. So there those leakages should not
happen. So you should be able to answer
those questions.
Then you should know multiple ways to
get labels with where it is humans,
natural signals, delayed labels and
wherever implicit negatives and wherever
it makes sense.
And then four tools when labels are
scarce. We learned about weak
superstition, weak supervision,
semi-supervision, transfer learning and
active learning. And then um when we
know that the label data is um you it's
hard to find the label data. So we will
try to learn about these four things as
well uh which is sweet, semi, transfer
and active. And then we will learn about
class imbalance that you should see why
rare classes make kn matrix lie and how
to fix that with data strategies and
algorithm tweaks and also we'll be doing
that in our coding environment. And then
you should be able to choose matrix that
correctly reflect the reality instead of
some dumb matrix which just makes you
happy and h and hide problems. So this
is the learning goal throughout the
session. So let's go ahead and start
learning about it.
Now TLM loop for data what does it mean?
TLM is my favorite framework to know
about thinking learning model.
Now what does thinking learning model
means? So first step is to observe where
is data coming from which APIs which
logs which database what privacy rules
latencies limits storage limits do you
have so that is to understand where my
sources are coming from to to understand
let's say you have
you have a data right so I'll represent
that in a red color so you should be
quickly able to say I am getting these
data from
this source, this source, this source
and this source. And then you should be
able to say that what constraints do we
have? What constraints do we have?
For example, what privacy rules, what
latency limits, storage limits do, do do
I have anything or not? Etc. So you want
to build a model on chat transcript. So
for example, let's say you want to build
some model on chat transcripts. So some
chats are stored in Indian region only.
Your chat should be stored in EU region
only. So this is a data constraint and a
legal constraint. So you should be able
to quickly identify those constraints
because right now I think some author or
some nodes guys actually some leaked
some data and used their data for the
model training and they got sued from
millions of dollars. So it is a very
very important aspect to understand
where your data is coming from and uh
understand that what are the constraints
associated with it. Then you should be
able to explain the risks like label
noise or drift. For example
is where the risks are and what drifts
can we expect. So for example labels may
be noisy inputs may drift for example
market might change into this particular
market might change into this particular industry.
some segments may be under representated
right for example if you if if you want
to build a cancer detection system you
should be able to know the environment
in India and environment in and what
sort of healthy habits is very different
in India and United States so you should
your model if trained on India will not
be able to perform very well in America
and the model trained in America will
not be able to perform very well in
not be able to perform very well in India
basically the data where the data comes
from and how to make sure that
everything is nice so for a sentiment
classifier support agent can sometimes
mark neutral tickers as negative just
because they are stressed. That is a
label noise. You should name it
explicitly. So labels may be noisy that
okay it may not work. We can just mark
it neutral if nothing is there right.
You should be able to name it something
inputs the market might change and etc
etc. Then third step is to build the
smallest data change that could
meaningfully help maybe add new slice in
the sampling maybe clean one type of
label. So for example, you notice Indian
languages tickets are under
representated. So what you can do, you
can add stratified sampling by language
and label 1,000 extra Hindi transcripts.
So let's say that as as I told that if
the thing is not available right in the
in the cancer so if the cancer if you're
training the model for both America and
India and if India uh the things are
under represented then what you can do
you can actually use stratified sampling
by by particular feature or parameter
and label 1,000 extra Indian um examples
so that even this you you don't have to
start with the complete data platform re
start with the complete data platform re redesign
and the fourth step fourth step is to
reflect did this ch data change improve
my recall we care about basically um did
it improved my matrix did it help in
that if yes keep going if not keep on
that if yes keep going if not keep on adjusting
okay so let's say to help you better
understand it you are building some
understand it you are building some cancer
monitoring system, cancer monitoring
system, you trained it and then it is
performing very bad in India and very
good in America. So what you will do?
You will add new set of 1,000 examples
more for cancer and then retrain the
model version number two and try to see
it. Now if the accuracy and basically
your matrix perform very well then you
go ahead. If not then you see okay. Now
let's say another another case India
performs well America. So you add
another thousand. So you keep on
tweaking it rather than whole data read
redesign you keep on adding a little
little data change that that can
actually help rather than a complete
data redesign. I hope that makes sense
when the real world is not stationary.
It the new you know um new environment
can get get a new cancer stuff right new
stuff. So new users new devices new
patterns for example the prime example
in this email spam detection system. So
the new thing which might come over here
is the new fraud patterns might come
over here. So your data work is never
done. You should be continuously that's
what I spoke about here as well
that design a system on purpose so that
you can continuously train it. You just
don't log it. You can continuously keep
on training it for every single time.
Data work is an so is an iterative
process. Production data it is not
finite or stationary. It keeps on
evolving over the period of a time. If
the fraud patterns are changed, if the
if there are new users, if there's a new
environment, if there's a new food
trend, if you're new devices, for
example, peptides right now, peptides
are very very common in United States.
Now, peptides, nobody knows the
long-term defect. What if it may cause
cancer, right? So, what about at a
certain point, we see a market change in
all the cancer detection system. They're
not trained on the peptides as a
parameter of what this peptides this
person has taken in the past. Right? So
cancer detection system may not consider
that. But what if that if that can the
major one so you should be continuously
adding the features new stuffs new from
new new patterns so that your data keeps
on getting trained on top of that.
So the prime example in second brain
which we did sales strategies tactics
changes every 4 months. It does not
stays there. It changes every single
four month or every single five month.
So we need to we needed to have a system
where we can continuously keep on
tweaking it and adding new stuffs over
here. Otherwise what used to work some
months back does not works now.
So what is the life cycle? So think of
data in a life cycle like like a how it
grows not just collect and train.
So you collect the raw events for
example whatever raw events then sample
what you need from it. If you want to if
you have collected
health records with what disease a
particular patient has have had then if
you're building a cancer detection
system you only will take out the people
who are having cancer people who are not
having cancer in a balanced approach.
also sample what you need and label
them. So there are certain ways which
we'll talk about how do we label them.
Then what you do you split them into
training and validation set. So training
and validation training test and
validation sets. So you train it you
validate it and then you test it. So
train and then you train the models. So
after you train the model you validate
the offline. So you validate the offline
matrix. So after you split it, you train
the model, you validate the offline
matrix that if it is working or not. If
not, if something goes wrong, go and fix
the data. Go and fix something. Like I
was telling change, do a small change in
the data.
Do a small change in the data out here.
I think I was explaining somewhere which
is build the smallest data change that
reflects though whenever you are at this
step of validation try to fix from the
offline matrix itself. So once you
validate your offline matrix then what
you should do you should quickly deploy
online. So once the offline matrix
you're good based on the matrix latter
which you have prepared deploy it online
and then keep on monitoring the behavior
and then keep on refreshing data and
labels. So what does it mean? you keep
on adding new stuff and all that and
after that you go back and repeat the
same process every single time. So you
keep on so this is a kind of a
lifestyle. So every new release is a
chance to revisit data decisions. Maybe
sampling is wrong. Maybe labels need a
new definition. Maybe you need to add a
new features. Never assume that data
choices are permanent. You should be
continuously tweaking everything and
every new release is a version of
something. And that's how Models gets
something. And that's how Models gets better.
So as you have must have seen on GitHub
that we have versions and change logs.
So consider data. So that's why there
are tools like DVC and all which is data
versioning tool where it helps you to
version your data with step by step. And
we'll learn about that after this
session as well into our coding
session as well into our coding sessions.
Okay. So why does the uh change locks
helps? Why does the change locks really
helps? So we change sampling on this
date, right? So we fix label. So you
will know that we changed sampling on
this particular data. After that our
this particular data. After that our model
decreased the performance. So we quickly
go and debug there. Right? So it also
helps us in fixing some stuff
sampling start simple and stay
representative. So what does that mean?
So simple random is which is there are
several ways that we can sample our data
from a big sources. One way is draw
random rows from the full data. So
simple random random is draw random
simple random is draw uh random rows
from the full data. Stratified is ensure
each group appears according to the
desired proportions. So stratified
sampling is 30 from US. If you are
building a cancer detection system for
US and India 50/50. So ensure each group
appears according to the desired
proportions we are looking at.
Now let's say that we are looking for we
there's a weighted sampling. Weighted
sampling what does it mean that we over
sample rare groups. For example, if
you're building cancer detection system
because we cannot afford to tell the
person does not have a cancer, the
person has a cancer, we can increase the
number of rare groups the person having
cancer. where it knows that what sort of
person has a cancer. So weighted cancer
sorry weighted sampling.
Then we have importance sample based on
how important rows are for loss of
business. Again this is what I I told
you as an example in the weighted stuff
and then you have a reservoir which is
reservoir one pass sampling for
streamlining keeping a representative
size sample.
So what is reservoir means? Which is
there's one pass sampling for streaming
data. So there's one. So if you if you
have this big data then you have one
portion of it for continuously streaming
with new data and rest with your simple
with new data and rest with your simple random
and that's what a reservoir. So there
are several ways that you can draw the
data out.
For example, I will give you one example
with every um uh sampling options. So
for simple random for simple for
stratified sampling by country and
device in a email spam model. So for
this particular thing this is actually
random. So
so for this particular thing which is
stratified sampling let's say for an
email spam filter you may want to repres
you you may want similar representation
by country and device. If you only
sample from US desktop users your model
may fail on Indian model traffic. Same
as the cancer example. Now what is this
reservoir means? Reservoir means if you
have an endless stream of locks you
cannot store everything. So river res
reservoir sampling what it do then it
lets you hold say 1 million rows in
memory while making sure each past event
had equal chance to be included.
So as I said it keeps on adding new
data. So this is stream streaming logs
into the data itself.
These are the simple sampling
strategies. Now we'll go to a
nonprobabilistic and probabilistic
sampling. So what what does it mean? So
non-probabilistic sampling means we took
whatever was easy to get. For example,
first 10,000 rows in the log or only
tickets that one team labeled. This is
fast but often biased. As I said that
you do this for the convenience thing.
For example, as I say first 10,000 rows
or only support tickets that was uh
taken by the team.
The probability sampling what is means
it is slower but it is worth it. What
does it mean? Let's say
is every item had a known chance to be
picked then we decide whether to pick it
or not. Right? So let's say imagine you
train a customer support classifier.
Okay, using val tickets written in
English from US web traffic. Then you
deploy it in India on app based Hindi
and English tickets. So it fails very
badly. So what you do you stratify your
sample by local and channel. So you make
sure that India plus app plus Hindi are
all present in the training. So every
single data we we we don't just take
first 100 uh first 10,000 rows. we go to
everything and based on a particular
problem statement problem statement we
see if that does make sense and add that
into our data set. So stratified
sampling is better. So stratify your
channel by local and channel and make
sure that India is also present there
according to the problem in the in the
right proportions.
As you can see this is example.
So how do we source labels? So hand
labels from so basically hand labels
what is a human labels where the human
is literally sitting and let's say
you're building an cat classifier
whether this this particular image is a
cat or not. So a person is coming there
is getting a picture and saying okay it
is a cat okay it is not a cat. So human
labels from domain experts are the gold
standard but very expensive and very
timeconuming. Let's say you want to
build a cancer system right now. Now if
you want to say get get some esteemed
doctors you'll cost millions of dollars
to just label them. So it is very very
slow and very costly. So I still people
do it. It is not that people don't do
it. Companies spend billions of dollars
into hand labeling especially company
like scale AI and all and especially
Amazon. I know uh the the industry in
basically an office of Amazon a subsidy
company of Amazon. What they do here is
they get a particular thing and they
follow a particular SOP to label.
So, and they spend a very good amount of
money. They have hired somewhere like
1,000 people and they pay somewhere
around $2,000 to $3,000 every year
because they are Indians to to to them
as a package and they make them work a
lot of time. So, yeah.
So human labels are gold standard but
very expensive which is another one is
some tasks naturally be naturally have
multiple valid labels. So sentiment for
this video is sick annotated thinks sick
means cool so positive. Another
annotative is sick as positive. So both
are possible in a different context. So
label can have a label multiplicity
right. So multiple lab valid labels or
annotate a disagreement. So as I said
this a video comes in sent the you want
to identify whether what is the
sentiment the this this video is sick.
Now sick means cool sick can be
negative. So label can be multiplicity.
So labels can have a multiple valid
labels. Some task. So so both are
different in different different
scenario. One has to see the scenario
and the context to be able to do it
well. Especially context awarenesses
comes in the LM still think things and
all that understands the context and
then response because sick is also good
and also bad right dope is also good and
and also bad right dope is also good and bad
right it depends on the context you can
also see a slang if it is in a good
context it means good.
So capture who labeled when and what is
the instruction because you should be
able to know who labeled and what is the
instructions. This helps you debug
disagreements and retrain the annotators
based on the thing.
And for ambiguous text instead of
forcing on label stole or three votes
two two positive and one negative. So if
an annotator one on one annotator this
person is saying sick two people are
saying sick and one people are saying
negative then you obviously will go with
this annotator.
Then we have data lineage. know the
origin where each sample and label came
from and when so that you can debug the
performance every time the performance
drops and uncover the bias.
drops and uncover the bias. Right?
And you should be able to track
everything which is each label, each
thing where it came from, from which
annotator, from which source, from which
vendor, what is what was the injection
date, what was the label version, how
many people labeled it to positive, how
many people label it to negative so that
you can debug where the issue is.
Correct? So I'll take one example. You
added 50k labels from a crowded crowd
platform. Suddenly validation accuracy
on medical tickets drops. So some
accuracy drops. So you check lineage and
see that there are 50k samples came from
a non-expert labelers. So labels are
noise. Those who are not experts, they
labeled it because the validation
accuracy is not performing well. So you
know to clean or down that particular
batch or remove that particular sample,
batch or remove that particular sample, right?
So to help you better understand this,
you have this 50k thing over here. These
50k from this big data source you have
50k with which was labeled. Then
validation performance decreased. Then
you go back and see what is wrong. Then
you find this 50k because you can see
that these some examples comes from this
these annotators and these annotators
has made some mistake
across it. And then you have your
natural labels. Now natural labels is
technically some system generates label
naturally. So in some products label
comes automatically for example clicks
if somebody clicks or not trip completed
or not actual travel time. So you don't
you don't need human to label for
everything. You define the windows where
absence become implicit negatives which
I was talking about in the which is if
somebody does not clicks on the ad in
the 8 to 10 seconds nobody that's why
you have a skip ad thing right so skip
ad implicit negatives so you must define
that in what seconds I will consider
this is a negative thing that person is
not interested or something like that.
Now it depends on the windows cycle. So
short windows learn fast but risk
mislabeling late events. For example, if
you choose 24 hours. Now some people who
open after 2 days will be wrongly
labeled as a no no open. So if you're
building a system which classifies
whether this email will be opened by
this guy or not. You should be able to
know if the person opens checks only
email every 2 days and then but you are
considering the implicit negatives into
the first 24 hours itself. You have a
chance of mislabeling late events.
So what you do that also depends on the
business context. So there's a no
universal window. So for food delivery
your thing can be 30 minutes. For job
applications your thing can be 30 days.
So you choose window length based on the
realistic user behavior in that
particular business context. So natural
labels and feed feed by windows which we
studied about.
So when hand labels are scarce. So there
are four tools towards it. So when hand
labels are scared which is it is not
possible to do it by hand you combine
multiple noisy rules or weak signals
into labels.
So I will try to explain you what does
this uh mean
via specific set of example of weak
superision. So suppose we want to label
nurse nodes as emergent or non-emergent.
So pure hand labeling of these notes of
millions basically of millions of nodes
is too expensive. Correct. So weak
superstition is that
we track emergency cases from the um
nurse notes. So we define labeling
functions like if the note contains
pneumonia or chest pain then the label
is emergent. If the node if if the if it
contains followup visit then it means
non-emergent. So you look at that
particular notes and then try to find
those keywords and based on that
keywords for example let's say if you're
building an email spam detection system
if that email contains these these words
then consider it as spam if that email
does not consider the words then
consider as non-spam
or you can say you combine huristics
with model that learns their accuracy.
So what does huristic means? Heristic is
more about weak superstition frameworks
combine many such rules and estimates
which ones are reliable. So they pro
produce probabilistic labels that I
believe in my context there are 30%
chance that this this particular email
is non-spam because I have seen these
are the words present over there. So
that's what weak weak superstition means
but you eventually need because I told
you that you eventually you need to tune
and validate with a small and a cleaned
labeled set. So you need to continuously
um validate your heristics or something
which you have designed.
We now we'll go to the semi-up super
semi-up supervision. That's another way
to do it. So suppose we have 1,000
labelled reviews and 100,000 unlabelled
reviews. So 1,000 labels. So you ask
somebody. So what you do, you train a
classifier to um basically let's say
1,000 let's take a simple example email
spam detection system. the 10,000 email
spam which is emails uh labeled whether
it's spam or not spam and 100,000
non-labelled ones. So what you do you
train a classifier on these 10,000
reviews itself and then you use it to
predict for the unlabelled reviews which
is pseudo label high confidence
unlabelled texts. So you take the
predictions where the model is very
confident and add them to the training
set as a pseudo labels and then you
retrain it and repeat it. So you do not
take all the 100,000 to retrain. You
take only where the model extremely
confident on in those things. Correct?
And then you take and then now let's say
model says I'm confident 5,000 sets. So
now you're training it as 6,000. So now
you train the classifier on 66,000 and
then predict for the 96,000 there. And
then again you pseudo basically pseudo
level high confidence where the model is
very very confident
but you always keep a clean separate
validation set that never gets pseudo
level that never get trained that a data
lineage thing leakage thing should not
never happen.
So this is another example. Another
example is transfer learning. So use the
pre-trained language model for support
intent classifier. So let's say instead
of training from scratch, you train a so
finetuning most of you guys also know
that let's say you have a B or open AI
or something like uh all already a
language model to identify whether this
particular support is high priority or
low priority. Okay.
So because the model already knows
general language you may need only few
thousand. So on top of this model on top
of this model you add another set of
layer of the data so that your model can
be fine- tuned. So this is very common
in large language models. So with large
foundation model sometimes you can start
with zero or few short prompting and
only later collect labels for a
fine-tuning if needed. So you start with
prompting and all and continuously keep
on logging and use those logs for the
training. And that's what we did when we
were building a SBL sales agent.
Previously we were a wrapper around an
API and prompting
and then what and then what we did once
we had about over a million
conversations we use that million
conversations to fine-tune on one of the
biggest uh large language models
which is transfer learning and then you
have an active learning. So what does
active learning means? Active learning
focuses human effort on the examples the
model is most confused about. So you
choose items where predicted probability
is around 0.5%, or where two model
disagrees. So show annotator only
uncertain or disagreeing examples or out
of distribution samples. So if model is
not sure about certain thing only then
use your human to come in come into the
thing. Now if you only label uncertain
examples, you can bias the data set. So
mix in some random samples for balance.
So please what if if you do 100
uncertain thing please do around 20
certain things as well random samples
from the data set to remove that bias
otherwise you your an annotator can be
biased towards it
and this saves both labeling cost and
improved performance where it matters
near the decision boundary which is cut
while raising the quality on the
while raising the quality on the boundary.
amazing concept which is class
imbalance. Now what does class imbalance
means? Rare classes make accuracy
means? Rare classes make accuracy misleading.
For example, I'll take I'll take one
example is when one class let's say you
want to build a system where it predicts
whether the email is spam or non-spam.
Okay. In the data set which you used to
train on you have only 10% 2% of emails
which are spam and 98% people who are
not spam. So this is a rare class. This
is a class of a this class has a rare
instances in the data set over compared
to this. So your model will be most
likely be what it will is imbalanced
data set problem.
So your model will perform very well in
even in the test training accuracy
because what whatever you be s sampling
it will be also performing very well
because just two 2% of the data set is
there. So your accuracy will be very
good. So what you should do in this case
you should use those matrix which
understands the imbalance settings very
well. So focus on recall on spam on the
minority class precision business
costbased matrix AOC PR and A a so all
that things you should you should be
able to get it so 1% fraud rate always
not fraud model gives 99% accuracy but
zero recall onto this minority thing
minority class
and I think everybody knows about it as
and I think everybody knows about it as well
fixing imbalance So
over sample minority rows which is you
try to increase the number of a thing
over sample try to take more of it and
under sample the majority or use more
sty synthesis. So there are ways to fix
this imbalance. So what you do over
sampling can sometimes inflate your
offline matrix if you leak over sampled
points into the validation sets. Right?
So keep validation close to the real
world distribution. Of course it is not
possible but whether valid validation
which we're using keep it close to that
and whenever you split into training and
validation use stratified splits so that
the class proportions are similar
correct so what you choose let's say you
have this data and stratified sampling
so what it will do in the training 50/50
of spam even in the validation 50/50 of
proportions of both of the class that's
why you end up using stratified sampling
for the realistic rates even in a matrix
Next step
then this is one way is to do the data
level methods. What we can do algorithm
level methods algorithm level methods is
use class base or use class balance
thing and so what does it mean? So give
higher priority or weight to minority
class in loss when you whenever you're
optimizing a particular algorithm using
gradient descent or something. So you
give that as a higher priority and then
you using low focus focal loss to focus
on hard examples. So that focal loss
means focus on hard examples and using
class imbalanced loss based on effective
number of examples. So it can actually
help you in the algorithm level methods
and always check per class precision and
recall on a held out set whatever the
things which you have said on the
validation side. So this these are some
which you guys already know that how to
handle this and we'll also doing this
into the uh coding sessions
split that reflect reality which is keep
train validation and test splits very
very honestly use timebased splits for
time dependent data split by keys device
so it should be proportionate stratified
sampling is a proportionate and
validation set as your contract
so sometimes you want to split entities
for example customers stores or device.
model is tested on completely unseen
entities not just unseen rows. For
example, let's say that you have this
big data. So you want to make sure that
even the training is proportionate. For
example, some reg region based not just
randomly it should be proportionate so
that it can be test on not just unseen
rows but every entities every regions
let's say India, US and all that.
So validation set is a contract. So with
with yourself and your stakeholders. So
you agree that if the model passes here
it is likely to work in the real world.
Do not touch or leak information into
it. When you have the validation
validation set should be also
proportionate stratified sampling.
So there are some pitfalls which may
some of the issues which we get which is
common data failures. Now what is common
data failures? you have wrong or
consistent labels, inconsistent labels,
your model will get confused. Let's say
if a person yesterday said hey you're
good and today said it and complete
different action you will confuse what's
what type of person is it now it is a
machine so your machine will get
confused if there is a inconsistency in
predicting something right so it should
so have some pattern to predict if the
labels are not good it may not perform
well drifting inputs if your market
keeps on especially this stock market
thing why people are not not able to
develop a predicting machine there
because the market keeps on changing so
your input distributions keeps Don't
change it
and then mixing data without tax. Now
what what what does it mean is for
example combining app and web but not
marking which is which.
So one of the example is defenses. So
what are the defenses towards it? What
are the defense tools which we can
achieve for this common failures which
we have which is first is the data
lineage options. So data lineage knows
which batch came from where so that we
can know that we don't have the noise in
that. So per batch matrix you can see
when a particular batch is weird. So
every batch you can see that which bat
is making making your model perform bad
which making it perform bad and then you
can debug it.
Then you have this um immutable hold out
sets to detect overfitting and leakages.
So you have a separate hold out says to
detect any leakages out there or detect
overfitting or something like that. Your
model has been trained on something
extra crazy even one.
So you switch to one of one of the
example which I usually use is you
switch to a cheaper labeling vendor for
part of the data. Suddenly validation
matrix drops. So per batch matrix plus
lineage show that only rows from a
particular vendor have high
disagreement. So you should be able to
quickly find out where the things are
correct when you have that and that's
why you know Amazon does not have one
labeler they have so scale AI has
thousands of people labeling it now
thousands are divided into batches and
every batch they they perform something
correct so what eventually ends up
happening that you can also debug it so
that's why data lineages becomes a very
very important thing especially in the
production environment
so this is a monitoring respect to the
data you'll be learning about monitoring
every single thing. Monitoring with
respect to the data, monitoring with
respect to the model, monitoring with
respect to the thing, everything you'll
be knowing about it. So after
deployment, monitor input distributions,
feature health, output and ground truth
matrix, which is are my feature in are
my market changing? No. Is there a lot
of missing values? Is somebody putting
the age as 500?
Then you have feature health. Then
prediction distributions. My prediction
is suddenly not going out of the what it
used to predict.
used to predict. Correct?
Then you define the thresholds so that
you don't have to always manually look
it. So if the drift score is above X or
if the recall drops below Y or if the
business revenue or KPI drops Z%. Which
is very important. If X is above which
is drift score is above or your recall Y
drops or your business KPI
drops these can be certain matrix to
quickly trigger and come and you come
and check it or at least investigate
that thing so that you can quickly and
we'll be also doing this thing into the
you'll be seeing how that monitoring
system pops up.
So sipping the shipping the model is not
the end. So shipping is the middle not
the end. The real game is how you
maintain and keep on refreshing. That's
that's why I say it's hard to commit.
It's hard to sorry it's it's it's hard
to initially have say yes but it's hard
to maintain something.
So we have a several activities you can
go ahead you pick a problem you choose.
So this is just for your understanding.
So I suggest to go through it learn
about it. Of course we'll be doing that
into the thing and this is the one pager
template which I always give into my
session that if you have any data
problem and how do you design the data
specifications of a particular thing and
these are your homeworks. So please
submit your pager with one decisions. So
I hope that it makes sense. The lecture
was pretty interesting. I know that
these lectures usually go a long way and
uh there are a total of 10 to 13
lectures and um in the next one we'll be
going to talking about our another uh
thing which is which we usually talk
about is great model fail with bad
features. As I told you great model
fails with bad data but also we have now
if you have tackled data specifications
we'll handle what goes in the input
which is bad features which is you can
you can have the data but if the data is
not it also makes sense to have the
label but if the data is not itself is
gibberish so it it it won't be
beneficial enough. So we'll learn about
that into our next session see around
that. So let's start this lecture with
some examples. So let's say that you're
building a system which predicts whether
to give loan to this person or not.
Right? So or or whether this person will
default a particular loan or not. So you
have a data set and you have this data
set X1, X2,
set X1, X2, X3,
X4 and then you have your final label Y.
X4 and then you have your final label Y. Correct?
Correct? Now
one of the feature in this one of the
input feature is income feature. Okay.
Now sometimes a particular person has
just 15,000 rupees uh rupees or or maybe
$200 per month salary at least in India
that's that's how it works and then a
person has let's say two lakh salary per
month. So it really depends right yearly
salary. So there can be a multiple
values of ranges as well. So what you
decided to do you said okay there are a
lot of feature distribution I will try
to normalize all the variable or
standardize my features this x1 x1
standardize my features this x1 x1 between
0 to one basically use some
normalization technique and we'll learn
about those things and then you actually
normalize it between 0 to 1 because
that's how you decided okay if because
that algorithm required you to normalize
so that there are lot of skewess there
okay now what eventually ends up
happening You trained your model X where
X1 were normalized, X2 were also
normalized and then X3 and all that a
lot of features were normalized. Then
what happened in the training process
you train with the scaled values. So if
any number was uh um so what you what
your model seen in the things is 0.2.8.6
in the income feature. Then what
happened? You deployed this model in
happened? You deployed this model in production
and then eventually what ends up
happening is your income which model
sees is 10,000 10,000 or maybe 20,000 or
30,000 over here instead of 0.2 0.8 or
30,000 over here instead of 0.2 0.8 or 0.6.
So your model says wait wait wait wait
wait what eventually end up happening
right now is I was expecting a
normalized feature but here you did not
normalize incoming variables in incoming
features you just send them the raw
income so model was expecting something
between 0 0 to 1 but gets value like
this so it's like feeding a thermometer
a voltage 10,000 times longer so of
course it will behave behave
course it will behave behave unpredictability
unpredictability unpredictably.
So whatever because your model has seen
only this it can because this represents
indirectly this only but your model has
not seen this right this particular
large features and model has seen so you
should have already uh skewed it already
normalized or standardized it. So even
the top tire model who is which is very
good theoretically in your thing which
is um and and even the offline matrix if
you have scaled it uh if you have scaled
in the income thing a training v
variable but if your production sees
unscaled and skewed version of it you'll
get of course wrong outputs because your
model has not seen such inputs and
that's one of the biggest blunders which
you see that whatever input which has to
go to the model is it has to be what
input your model has already seen. This
is one of the prime example which we
usually see into the real world. So no
matter how good your model would be, if
it does not gets what it wants to, it
won't proceed and that's why great model
fails with bad features and that's what
the whole section will be about. Now
I'll talk about another common bug. So
this is one this this was one of one of
the common bug which we used to see.
There is another common common bug which
we usually see. Now what is that common
bug is inconsistent bin. Now what does
bin means? So in your so let's say
you're building some cancer detection
system and again I will take one example
which is x1 x2 and then you have your y
which is basically your prediction label
which is basically your prediction label y
and x1 in this case represents age of a
particular person. So age can be 6 20
30. So usually bin is about okay well 0
to 18 is one bin then 19 to 40 is
another bin 41 to 65 is another bin
correct so
you decided this bin for your training
set right so this is one this is second
this is third first bin second bin third
bin so this six comes in first bin this
this this thing comes in third bin so
only three so bin is also you will learn
about why the bin is there so you
started to bin it and Then you trained
with this with this binning strategy
where 0 to 18 was 1. Then 18 19 to 40
was 2 and 41 to 65 represent the number
three. Then what happens in production
someone else implements. So in
production you do not implement this
bin. What you say? What you say? You say
that 0 to 20 is 1,
21 to 50 is 2 and 51 + is 3. But here
you have decided 0 to 1 either while
training you decided bin something like
this right 0 to 18 19 to 40 and 41 to
653 and then you accordingly remove this
thing with the accordingly bins correct
but in production the bin was very
different than uh thing. So people don't
realize but eventually you end up doing
a very big mistake because again the
model expected something else what you
trained with but you are giving
something something very different. So
features whatever you are providing in
the training set should also be useful
must be useful and stable across the
life cycle. It should not be
inconsistent. It should be consistent
enough. So the model thinks it is
getting bin 2 from the first scheme but
production is sending bin 2 from the
second scheme. So it has a same index
but it might have a different meaning.
For example, if your thing is 30 over
here, but 30 plus we have added in the
third bin while training but in
production we have added 30 in the
second bin. So it will not perform very
second bin. So it will not perform very well.
Correct? So I will tell you one example
so that it it actually helps you to
understand is let's say you have this
age variable you have this so-called
age variable and then you have training
bin on which you trained in and then you
have serving bin. So age was 25 in the
training. So it was 1 which is 19 to 40
but 1 21 to 50. Okay, that is one. Then
you have 19. So it in training bin the
bin was one. But here it was zero. So it
is the same person but it is a different
bins. So features do not match with each
other. So whatever you trained it with
it is not matching with what you're
serving with. So bin as well as these
things are very very common issues which
we see. This is one of one of the
example to help you understand why even
the great model won't be able to proceed
the great model won't be able to proceed further.
So this lesson is super simple. Features
should be useful. They actually help
prediction which is useful and then they
should be stable which is same
definition in this training time and
versioned. Version means so you know
which we'll come to the versioning later
on but version so that we can know at
which stage we changed what. So here are
some of the learning goals which you'll
follow in the into this session is by
the end of this module we you'll be able
to apply augmentation permutation uh
pertubation synthesises to boost
strawousness encode categoricals that
evolve daily which is unknowns and new
choose scaling and other methods that
avoid leakages. then design feature
crosses safely and run systematic
leakage shakes before even the launch.
So we'll learn about that. We'll follow
our formal TLM loop. You can read our
manifesto of how we teach. We'll
observe, we will reflect and then we
will try to explain it. We'll build it
and reflect it. So
first just observe which is what are the
ranges? Where are the the values
missing? How does the data arrive over
time? Are some features slowly drifting?
So look at the data and try to see that
answer these questions that what are the
ranges of a particular thing. For
example, age might see the range age
might see the range of 18 to 90 that is
the range which I'm seeing in the data.
So try to observe that thing. If our
income we might see to 0 to something
one lakh or something like that right
then device type can be three
categories. So you design what ranges
you see in every particular column
whether it's an whe whether it's a
numerical or categorical feature you
should be able to define those ranges.
Then you figure out okay how much my
data is missing in that particular which
is null values. So 0.1%
then 5% then 0%. So it depends on how
much missing rate is there. Then
is there any drift? For example, age
remains the same. Correct? Your um um
remains the same. Correct? Your um um income
changes after some years, right? Maybe
your device for example if there is a
your device for example if there is a iPhone
then Apple then MacBook then there's
another thing added. So new category is
added. So you understand every feature
X1, X2, X3, is there any drifts
appearing over the last month. So when
you just sit and observe that what
eventually matters, you'll be able to
say what are the ranges, what are the
values missing in everything, what is
the how does the data arrive over time
which is drifting and are some features
slowly drifting or not. So you just do
not apply anything just try to observe
which will eventually help you to
which will eventually help you to explain.
Now what do I mean by explain that which
transforms help and why correct? So
let's say that if
you there can be multiple incomes right
for for a particular variable X X2 is
income in this case there can be
multiple skewess. So what you do you
apply lo transform it to transform that
or into a particular thing into a um
standardized way so that it is not so
much skewed right for example a
particular person might might have 15k
salary another person 200k salary so
your feature won't look skewed so you
apply log transfer on top of it or you
apply minmax scaling for models or
algorithms that are sensitive to scale
for example especially regression type
of algorithms are very sensitive to
scales it depends on the algorithm
assumptions If you learned about
assumption, you'll be able to answer
this that which transformation to apply
on which variables according to which
algorithm so that it performs well.
Then there are algorithms which are um
sensitive to outliers sensitive to
outliers but we want to include those
outliers. So what you do you actually if
there's a too much of noisy numerical
variables especially things like incomes
and all or probably especially uh you
put it bins. So income which is more
than one lakh it comes in one. So you
try to if if it is too much of
continuous thing you try to put it in
bins you try to put the in ranges. So if
the algorithm is sensitive to outliers
so which transform protects decision and
why are we doing that is another thing
is you should be explain everything why
why are you doing then what you do you
build a simple transformation pipeline.
Now that pipeline what you'll be using
in while training you'll be using the
same pipeline while serving if any input
comes in. So if you're providing data
with age x age then you're providing
income then your device type then you're
also provide then you're passing this
through a particular um pipeline then
you are passing this through a
particular pipeline then what should
happen this same pipeline should be used
to pass the serving whatever it is going
to production so that the issue it does
not re it only receives after passing
through the pipeline correct so you can
implement identically in the training
and serving and you can test and monitor
So do not build a massive chain of
transforms that nobody can reproduce. So
you should be able to do it nicely and
then what you do you reflect the
dashboards for data. So what you do you
reflect okay these are the input
features which are coming in
distribution. These are the missingness
over time. This is the prediction
distributions. So if the if anything
goes wrong you're able to see into that.
Correct? So this is a very simple model
to build a fully automated uh feature
engineering pipeline.
Now we will study step by step about the
several uh which I told you which is how
do we apply to boost robustness but here
what I want you want you to remember
from this is anything which goes in over
to understanding it's always if you're
building a pipeline always start with
something super simple always start with
something smallest and monitorable
pipeline and then you keep on versioning
it. So let's say you do the next one,
you apply more transfer, you then you
have the next version. So if performance
drops after deploying that version,
you'll be saying okay this version
actually help me to increase or decrease
my performance. Let's either upgrade or
degrade my thing. So always build the
smallest one baseline first. We'll learn
about that in the next lecture is about
how can you build the smallest thing
first and then go further.
So augmentation which is augmentation
means we generate so new examples by
small changes that do not change the
label. For example, let's say you need
more data, you need more features inside
that. Correct? So in images, let's say
you have a photo of a
dog. Let's let's assume it is a
dog. So what you do? You just flip it.
So now the dog will look
I don't know different. Okay, you just
flip it. It is still a dog but your
algorithm sees a different way. So let's
say you're building this image
classification whether this image is a
dog or not. Instead of so instead of to
create new data, you just flip the
images, right? You flip, you crop, you
rotate, you just erase their what do you
call a tail, you erase their legs. So it
eventually ends up creating lots of
examples. So augmentation really means
you augmentation means we generate new
examples by small changes that do not
change the label. We are not saying that
it is not a dog. It is going to be the
dog. We are not changing the label. Just
that we are doing small changes without
changing the label. Another example says
changing the label. Another example says that
let's say you have the synonym uh rap
which is um this app is great. So what
you do you eventually
this movie was great or this thing was
great. So the same thing goes to the the
film was amazing or you change the
synonyms you actually the synonym of
happy goes to glad. So it is a slight
paraphrase. It does not changes the
sentiment but it definitely gives the
algorithm to view it from a different
angle as well. So what does it mean? It
really means augmentation helps us to
focus on the essential pattern not the
exact pixel or exact word so that your
model learns that happy and glad into
that sentiment means that sentiment
without changing the label and that's
what augmentation is about. Correct? So
that is what about the label preserving
transformations. So more varied inputs.
The more you give the varied inputs, the
more robust the models will become
because they will not see that every
time you see a pixelated value this will
look like a dog. No, you give them 100
such things where you erase their tail,
you erase their nose, you raise their X
thing and then eventually ends up having
a good one. Okay, more valid inputs is
more robust models.
Then you have pertubation. Now what does
this mean? Which is stress testing with
noise. So what do you do? It's about
deliberately adding noise to test or
improve the robustness. So whenever we
think about adding any noise, I'll take
you one example. Let's say
you have original feature vector
includes age as. So let's say you have
your feature vector where a particular
column age is 30 and income is 50k. So
this is age and this is
income. Okay. Then what you eventually
eventually end up doing your pertub
value over here would be age is you you
just make it to 30.2
and income you make it to 51k.
So here you did not change it
drastically. You just added a little bit
of small gosh gshian noise to numeric
features. If it is numeric you can do a
slight smelling mistakes in the text. If
you're dealing with texts, what it
eventually it helps to do, it gives that
it gives that ability so that your model
becomes more robust to anything which
goes in. So it does not seize only
perfect examples but also with examples
which are a little bit of noisy.
So if the churn probability jumps from
0.2 to 0.9 due to such a tiny change, we
know that the model is too sensitive to
the noise. So we should be able to
change the things. So as as I said very
quick very very easily that let's say
that um
um you change this particular age to
30.2 and 52 51k and then you see the
overall result. So that's what
pertubation means eventually helps for
robust training and evaluation and it
also depends on which algorithm. If if
the algorithm is too sensitive to noise
you should not be able you should be
able to test it on every version and
that's what you should do in your
project as well. You should implement
everything and test it how it impacts
your output and then craft a proper
paper around it.
Fabricate when scarce. So you create a
so let's which is data synthesis. So you
fabricate when when so when you don't
have a rare thing. So it if it is rare
you fabricate stuff. So what does it
mean? Sometimes the class you care about
is extremely rare. Maybe you only have
found 50 fraud examples. So what you can
do you can use simple techniques like
smokeote or use generative models to
create realistic but fake rows. Correct?
So but you must keep your distributions
realistic and document how you generate
that synthetic data. So you end you end
up generating the synthetic data. So you
ask GP to look at these 50 fraud
examples and create more in the same
examples and create more in the same distributions.
Okay.
So that's what we mean by fabrication
when it is scarce by using generative
methods to generate new data by little
bit of fabrication but it should be in
the same distribution and same stuff.
Then when it comes to handling missing
values or null values there are se there
are several ways. So missing values are
pretty normal into that you have three
basic options. Drop simple impute model
based imputation. So what does it what
does it mean? So let's say you drop
rows. Drop rows means you remove rows
with the missing values. So what
eventually ends up happening that it the
risk is that you lose the data if you
drop rows with the missing values. So
you need to be very careful in that then
you drop column. So if the if what
happens that if there are a lot of null
values you end up dropping the column
but what is the risk? You may lose that
signal that particular column itself you
are removing that. So you end up losing
that thing. Then you have mean impute.
Mean impute mean you fill the train with
the mean of that particular column. Now
what eventually end up happening it
might give a wrong opinion. It can
distort the skewess which you have. So
it is simple people do it but it can
distort. Again you have to implement
this check your offline matrix see how
it decreased or improve and put it in a
version. That's how people do it. They
they are not aware about a lot of they
check experiment see how it operates and
then version it out. That's why I say
versioning and logging is very very
versioning and logging is very very important.
Constant impute. Constant impute means
um best when so it's like use values
like zero. So if like zero or 999 or
something a special code into that if
something is missing so best when
missingness is signal the whole thing is
signal. Okay. Then you have model based.
So what you do you eventually put that
So what you do you eventually put that particular
variable. So let's say you have x1, x2,
x3, x4. Correct? And then you have a y
label. So what do you do? You eventually
have this thing. You eventually have
this thing. Now you put this x4 as y and
y as x4. So basically you train a model
on this data set to predict x4. So
that's what we mean by model based. You
literally train a different model to
predict for that missing values.
But what is an issue? Issue might be
higher complexity leakage of risk
because you're literally giving this y
in training. So this X4 might contain
something something. So there's a risk
of leakages if you do that. So when you
actually build that model there there
might be a risk but again you can try
this out version it out see how it
works. We'll also be doing that in the
coding sessions.
So that scaling that won't bite. So what
does it mean? So some models are very
very sensitive to feature scale for
example logistic regression neural
networks. So what you do you scale
features because you eventually have
this gradient descent behave nicely. It
reaches to the conclusion very well and
your features are comparable. So
especially some models their assumption
is that your feature should be scaled
that your feature shouldn't be that so
that's this this much noisy then only
things can be getting there.
So what you do you have the several ways
to compute a nice uh uh ways to scale it
out. And I'm very clear that it
everybody learned about feature scaling
very well. For example, if in a training
set you have the tenure
from 1 to 36 months. Okay. Then what it
does then production later has values of
120 months. So what it can do the your
minmax scaling can make it between 0 to
1 because it was it made already 0 to 1.
So sometimes your production value might
see complete different than what it was
in the training. But if you have the
training values, it performs really well
in the production as well. So that's why
scaling that won't bite you. You should
be able to understand which algorithm is
prone to that that that thing and then
you you should be able to scale it up.
Then we have another ways to transform
our features. Bining converts binning
converts a continuous features like
income into categories like low, medium,
high. So instead of having income like
30k then 200k then 600k you low you
create a bracket. So 0 to 30 low 200 to
4. So it you convert that thing into a
categorical feature sort of thing. So
this has actually big benefits to
extreme values and easier to handle
which has an unseen ranges.
Okay
that's one thing. One other thing which
I want you to say that let's say that
I'll give you one example so so that you
understand this better.
Let's say you have this income
which is in rupees
then you have this quantile bin then you
have this domain bin. So quantile 10k 0
is low
then domain bean is low 30k
one mid mid right and 90k high. Now
let's say you ended up creating 50 tiny
bins for example 0 to 5 very very low 5
to 10 all the way around you create this
50 bins. So your model over fit in that
case. So do not end up creating overb
boundaries. Simple quantiles often
suffic whatever sufficient is there it
should be able to have the smallest
should be able to have the smallest quantiles
then categorical features can explode or
change quickly right so if the set is
small and rare rarely changes something
like gender or the day of the week one
hot is fine but if there are too many
categories new ones offer up your plan
type merchant ID there can be multiple
urgent merchant ID So use the top k plus
and unknown bracket or hashing. So what
what what do I mean by uh top k which is
the top k um so let's say I will take
one example so that you understand this.
So plan type can be multiple. So plan
type is in the telecom industry is one
of the feature. So where new plans keep
on launching every single month. So what
you can do you can keep the top 20 most
common plan types with individual
embeddings. So plan 1 to 1, plan 2 to 2,
plan 3 to 3, only top 20 and then
anything which comes beyond that after
20 you write unknown or you hash it with
say thousand. So you write unknown or
thousand over there itself top K and be
aware of the new categories. Anything
goes beyond the 20 you'll put that
unknown or something like that.
So that's what we means categorical
variables that really evolve. You either
choose to hash which you hash the thing
which is hash with some numbers or you
heavy long tail which is a long thing.
So you start to only the top 20 top k
top 20 um kind of a popular features
rest of them as unknown
feature crossing. So this latex did a
little bit of issue. So what does this
mean? This is actually
So feature crosses capture interactions.
So what you do you literally multiply
stuff. So for example feature cross
feature interactions means that maybe
marital status and number of a children
together can say more about churn risk
than each alone. So what you do you for
creating the new thing you multiply your
marital status with the number of a
children they have whether these guys
will purchase X thing or not. So they
can tell more about it if you combine
two variables literally multiply with
each other. But crosses can watch for
explosion. That's why I said watch for
explosion because crosses can explode in
size. So feature A which has 100 values
which cross with B which is 100 values
it gives 10,000 categories. So if you
have one only have 5,000 rows that is
very sparse and overfitits very easily.
So watch out for explosion which might
come over there.
Okay. So feature interaction is very
simple. You literally multiply two
variables and you keep on creating new
features. See how it actually helps you
in the final thing. But make sure that
you watch for explosion and overfitting
risk might also happen. And so
understand your business context and do
it nicely. And that's where your GP and
all this comes in to help you take this
all this comes in to help you take this decisions.
And then we have leakages. The silent
killer anapura. So I'll tell you guys, I
mean I don't want to talk about such
things but one of my dream which is
completely out of the context is I want
to climb
all the 8,000 ms. I'm not kidding. At
least at one point of my time when I
have a time when I am physically fit I'm
trying to do lot of I mean of course I
I'm a powerlifter but powerlters are not
good at cardios. So I want to climb
Mount Everest, K2, Ana. Uh so so that's
why leakage is that's that's the silent
killer. So the the the the the silent
killer is very very interesting which is
leakages means a future uses information
that would not be available at a
prediction time. Correct? So let's say
prediction time. Correct? So let's say um
here what you do you want to predict
whether the somebody will cancel or not
whether somebody will cancel their churn
thing or not. So what you eventually end
up doing you also give this cancel
feature to the model. So model will
cheat because it already saw it canceled
so it will cheat. So offline matrix will
look amazing but in production you
cannot use that information. So in in
while testing bleakly you include the
information from Y label to your input
itself and model sees and cheats it but
in prediction in real world it it will
the model performance will collapse. So
watch out for the um leakages anywhere
so that your Y is completely separate
your cross validation set or test sets
is completely separate than what you
have done with uh training sets. Do not
ignore this.
Leakages checks you run every time which
Leakages checks you run every time which is
you should have the checklist always and
this should you should implement this in
your system. You should implement this
in your document and document this out
is prevent training on
is prevent training on you
train validate test by event type. So
you prevent training on the future info
as well. Okay. So B by V time first of
all train it, validate it and test it.
So that you should have a checklist of
whatever you are doing. Then what you do
you should have a same transformation
parity which I was telling you in the
first slide that you should have a same
code path and frozen stack. For example,
you should normalize it. If it was if
you normalize something in training or
you transform some feature in training,
whatever new thing should also be
transformed using the same thing.
Then avoid using label of a current row
which is out of target encoding. Do not
u uh use the targeting which is which
was involved and delete suspicious
features influence. So that's that's
what we call as ablation test which is
drop suspicious features and tests and
then canary monitoring which is
continuously monitor your distribution
and shifts after your deploy. Ultimately
your model is all giving a good 9 10 12
and all of a sudden gets thousand. So it
should quickly alert you that okay model
misbehaved at this at this time. So you
should be able to go and investigate. So
for example I'll I'll tell you one
ablation example which is days since
last payment. So you should be able to
drop that particular feature day since
from the model and see if the
performance changes. So if the dropping
it does not hurt it suspicially
correlated it with label. So you should
always do this ablation test. So what
you should do you should have this x1 x2
x3 x4 and then y okay
you should do one thing whenever you
train a model in the version two remove
x1 and check the accuracy. Remove x2
then have x1 and check the accuracy.
Remove x3 but have x1 have doing
anything. And you'll be seeing that if
let's say X1 does not hurts the model
performance which means that it was
actually potentially helping out. There
was some leakages involved. It may not
be direct leakage. It can be indirect
leakages as well. Okay. So maybe it was
leaking. So you do your ablation test
very well. So time aware splits
transformation parity out of fold
encodings ablation test and continuously
monitoring is a checklist which you
should have.
So when you're working on features
you're not only chasing your offline
metrics like AU curves you're also
checking does performance improve on
important slices correct for example
India mobile new so does it helps focus
on robustness and slices means that
whether it's working on certain things
or not on certain slices which we
optimized it for do not just check your
AOC search it in real world are feature
distributions healthier so messiness
drift prediction distribution north and
business matrix does it remains the our
north north star. So business outcome is
still the final judge but the feature
label matrix help you know if the
changes actually making the model safer
and more robust.
So I'll tell you one example. So the
slices let's say overall you have
overall how your system is performing in
India how it is performing and in new
plan how it is performing. So your old
recall was 0.80 overall 0.16 India and
0.14 new stuff then your new recall
which comes in is 0.82 82 0.75
0.70 so overall it did not succeeded a
lot but if you talk about specific
things specific categories like say
system in India system in X region it
increased drastically
from 0.40 to 0.70 correct 0.60 60 to
0.75. So it in massively improved the
key slices. So do not just think about
overall but also on specific slices
which is that's what slice performance
not just an overall thing.
So here is one worked example which is
churn prediction. So suppose we are
predicting predicting churn for a
subscription product. So your features
can be income which can be highly skewed
because then you have tenure it is a
continue. You can convert this into bins
plan type this they appear categorical
new plans keeps on appearing correct. So
what you do you can apply over here
let's say you transform them or
standardize them or something like that
into because the problem is they're
highly skewed. So what you do you simply
transform them using or nor log
transform or standardize then backup
bins after standardization. If that
doesn't works then what you do in the 10
year you standardize with the train sets
maybe also bin for crosses and then what
you do with the plan type only the top
20 popular plan type and after that
anything which comes is unknown. Okay.
So uh there are several ways to u do it
and then you can also apply crossing
interaction variables where you multiply
one thing with another to make another
thing only after having enough data
about it. So that's what one of one of
the example with churn production. You
should be able to build this whole
should be able to build this whole pipeline.
Search ranking. This is another example.
This is another worked example. So for
search ranking early features can be
simple. So number of a shared words
between query document and document. So
start with simple overlaps whether title
contains the full query or not. Correct?
So let's say
uh you you have this query query which
is iPhone 13 case. iPhone 13 case. your
document title. Your query comes in.
Document title is protective case 13.
Then you have another query which is
iPhone 13 case and iPhone black cover.
iPhone black cover. So you create
another variables. So shared versus is
just one but in this case it is two and
shared bin is one and 2 to 3. Okay. So
you ended up creating more variables
over here. So you collect more data so
that your model knows and gets more
patterns about it.
So before you call a feature pipeline
done, what is a definition of a done? So
the first step is that small same
transform code for training and serving
does not change. You should apply
whatever you applied in training to
serving as well. Scaling starts stored
with version. Everything whatever you do
is always stored with version. Bin age
is stored with version. Whatever we have
decided the bins encoder saved and
loaded in production so that any new
inputs whatever the new base whatever
it's seen in the training it also sees
in that you have set up your dashboards
and alerts there. If any transform
changes there is a backfill plan. You
also have the roll back enabled so that
anything happens you can really roll
back if new feature hurts the
guardrails. So if any of them are
missing you're not done yet man.
So what are the common traps? So common
traps is compute computing this mean or
standard deviation on full data set each
day. So what eventually ends up
happening that you freeze the stats. You
cannot recomputing normalization online.
So what happens? You end up doing this
leakages or unstable. What do you do?
You take the mean for on the full data
set. No you take if you have the missing
value in the training set you have this
thing and then you just fix on the whole
thing. you're taking something from your
training and cross validation set. So
what whenever you fill this thing you
just fill from the train missing values
in the training set not from testing or
cross validation set because it hurt it
can actually um leak your information
from your testing and cross validation
set and your thing can actually deviate
other things as well. Then sometimes you
uh put everything unknown. So unknown
bucket for everything new. So if there
are a lot of unknown brackets so prefer
hashing. So either top K plus hashing.
So always have a top K plus hashing.
Then too many crosses and small data
starts. So it can actually o overfit. So
it start to multiply everything leak the
chance of leakages as as as well as
overfitting might start to happen. So it
sparse features or overfitting can start
to happen. So we don't want to do that.
So this is it about and there's a
several activity which I want you to do
and you can do that uh into your text
problem and send it out to me as well.
Whatever we have discussed this is a
template which we usually going to use
and I'm going to this is an homework
which again which I want you to do and
then beautiful features are boring in
production stabled versioned and
monitored every single thing whatever we
do we monitor it whatever we have it we
version it so that we can come back and
debug it. Now what we'll do we'll
connect this feature into your training
connect this feature into your training sorry
pipeline and feature store we learn
about those feature store feature store
now you'll notice that we MLOps is not
about learning tools MLOps is not is
about practice
once you have that practice oh my god
for every task there are enough number
of just like in AI you have lot of tools
for a task right same like that in
envelops you have enough tools tools no
no need to learn tools learn about why
it is needed go to a specific tool which
solves this problem okay good good guys
so let's go ahead into the next lecture
and then we study about that as well all
right everybody welcome to our another
class of MLOps
now this lecture might be little complex
and overwhelming because I've not put
lots on of examples which I'm going to
speak about into these slides so what
you need to do you need to refer to my
notes what I'm speaking about because
what we have done is we have transcribed
all my lectures and also put that up
into special and crafted special notes
along with several assignments
throughout. So I suggest you to open
that as well and if possible print it
out and put it in front of you so that
you're also focusing on the lecture as
well as trying to understand it. So
well as trying to understand it. So now
uh what we can do is let's try to first
understand a very important thing is how
can we win with four simple steps. So
when we start this lecture if you're
fully prepared to listen because I'll be
making sure that whatever we speak
whatever I'm speaking I'm going to speak
it very crystal and clear so that it
goes into your mind because my
handwriting sometimes doesn't comes out
right so you won't be able to just see
and learn you need to really hear what
I'm trying to speak
I'm trying to speak so
this lecture is all about validating our
another statement which I talked about
in My first lecture itself is win with
simple first steps and that's very very
important. So it is a very big reality
check which I'm going to give. I have in
my personal life and from the last 7
years even to my own products we have
seen dozens of ML projects not dozens
even at least hundreds of ML projects
which were trying to be deployed in
production. And you know what what kills
most of them? It's not bad data, you
know. It's it it can be bad data. It's
it can be bad features but I see that
it's not also that they don't have
enough money like to buy GPUs and all
but I see that whatever teams they are
doing they are trying to jump from let's
say you know you you must be seeing a
meme they are here
bad data can be one issue but even
before bad data bad features and
anything team jumps and says that hey I
want to solve all this with more complex
like large language models LLMs.
So I'll do with LMS I'll do with large
language neural networks uh very complex
systems. So what this team does they
straight away jump they straight away
jump into such scenarios and what ends
up happening is that it just fails even
to at second brain you know we when when
we were building initially uh and it
happens and it it happens to a lot of
people our team started to say that hey
let's start to use you know let's start
to fine-tune models let's try to do this
let's try to do that and I was like wait
a Second, can we first do some simple
step to validate that that will work or
not? So, I'll give you one of the very
interesting ideology which we follow at
our own organization. I'm not allowed to
even share this but just just to make
sure that that you guys know.
Let's say that we we were building a
system. What it said? It said that we
collected 10 samples of data. Let's say
an a small sample set of data n from
that n we created a very small model m
the model was created very small without
any huge compute no major compute and x
stuffs and then using this m we deployed
the model we deployed the model that
yielded in x percentage of our increase
in something which it might be 1% or 2%.
Then what we projected that if we make
this n to probably n + 1 million then
this will increase our x% of performance
will increase drastically. So for that
we need to have the right compute we
need to have the right stuffs right data
and all for that we need money. So we'll
go to the investors and say that hey
listen we have already proved it with
all those matrix that hey it will work.
There's no question of that it will not
work. So we eliminated the risk whether
it will work
or not work. We eliminated that risk.
Once that risk was eliminated the
investor was ready to pour in the money.
Right? So that's why a lot of even
startups do not get initial money
because they do not keep on eliminating
the risks of the investors. So the same
way the best possible way to eliminate
major risks is to start with the very
simple steps.
So and I'm not kidding here. We spent
So and I'm not kidding here. We spent our
lot of time in designing this system
from n to x% increase which was not too
much but it already gave us around 80 to
90% of the value from our first working
pipeline because from our first simple
model because we knew that it will work.
That means that we've already achieved
90% of your work. Right? Now you just
need to add more data to make it 100%.
Right? So your first model should be
super simple. It shouldn't be that you
know you deploy large language models,
you deploy neural networks, you deploy x
number of things. Absolutely not. Take
it simple. Take it very very simple.
Start with something show that it will
work out. And I will say I'm taking the
name of whether it will work out or not.
What it will mean we'll study throughout
this lecture. What does work out and
doesn't work out means.
So I'll take one example. In any of your
relationship if the compatibility is not
there very simple stuff you we we
complicate things even in a lot of
relationships right so if you understand
even from a human context we
unnecessarily comp complicate things
rather than to simplify things out so if
they simple if it is lowmaintenance it
will work out first let's see if it
works out or not and then if it works
out then let's pour in the efforts more
so let's give you some examples of
course I taken some wrong wrong examples
in this case but let's take first
example of actual machine learning
models and what I'm going to do I'm
going to take a nice blank page so that
you all can actually see first example
is let's say you want to build a
platform what it does
it's an e-commerce platform e-commerce
platform and what it does it is a search
ranking so if anybody searches any
product it should be able to rank the
products accordingly
So company had zero AI and machine
learning. So what they were doing the
what the company was doing company was
let's say it was an Amazon in '90s and
what the company was doing whatever the
new product which which was coming it
was not ranking based on the user
request it was ranking based on the
newest first. So whatever newest product
was launched it was ranking at the top.
That's it. That's now that's that was
the ultimate thing. Then what it what
they did their first machine learning
model which was there they had they
deployed a logistic regression model. So
they deployed a logistic
regression model and what the model
taken as an input the first was
clickthrough rate
price of that particular thing review
count and so on right then
is it a newest as a feature or not
basically whether it is a zero or one
sort of thing. Then what they did they
spent the next six months trying to
build that um um deep learning models.
So via this they saw an x percentage of
increase in their better rankings
because they trained a logistic
regression model which were decently
able to using the CTR price um uh review
count and newest they were able to
increase the x percentage of the um
improved conversion. So let's say to 12%
of the conversion was improved by using
a logistic regression model and then
what they did they spend their next 6
months because they thought okay I have
already been there at 12%.
Now they spend the next 6 months on what
they trained a very complex deep
learning models. What happened that they
spend some x days into building this
which helped them to go to 12%
conversion but when they spend this 6
months on deep learning they get 1.5%
additional from that 12% 12 + 1.5.
Now overall 13.5 in some days you get
12%. In some in months in half of the
year you get 13.5.
Was it worth it? It is very debatable in
this case. Some of you might say okay if
the companies like Amazon have billions
of users then even the 0.5% would make
sense but the company was not billions
of users. The company was just few
thousands of users. So it also depends
on the business context. If you're happy
with this please go ahead and be there.
Start with the simplest model first.
Right? Do not try to have very complex
structures. It also depends on the
business structure of how much
complexity you can take.
I'll take another example of content
moderation. So you want to build a
content moderation system. So I'll again
write this example of content
write this example of content moderation.
So a social media company they had a
team of 50 moderators. So they had a
team of 50 moderators who are manually
reviewing every post. So whatever let's
say on Instagram okay it is being
manually reviewed
manually reviewed by the set of 50
manually reviewed by the set of 50 moderators.
So what they did their first machine
learning model was kneed. So basically
they trained a simple
model which was knbbed model and what
they did they actually tagged this like
is it contains flagged words does it
account has a past violations. So the
number of a features was past
violations, flagged words, then you have
account age, is it a new account posting
bad stuff,
is it any u banned themes from the
platform and all that. So these were the
input features.
So accuracy was that they were at least
out of this they were able to they were
able to achieve like 78% accuracy. What
does it meant? 70 almost 60 to 70% of
the cases this algorithm was able to say
that whether this post was a good or not
only rest 30 to 40% was reviewed by
only rest 30 to 40% was reviewed by humans.
So the in this case nive base focused on
this algorithm focused on the obvious
post which looked like a bad post but
the hard ones were giving to the humans
in this case. So then also in Nbase got
trained even the hard ones over the
period of a data sampler like the way we
can use the data for the training as you
have understood from the pre previous
lectures. So here it automated 60 to 70%
of the task they improved overall thing
by 60 to 70% and easiness of their
moderators instead of 50 moderators they
just have now five moderators reviewing
the hard ones. Then they what they say
they said that okay I wanted to jump to
straight to Bart which is bet B right
which is another large language model.
So I said no and I said hey listen why
do you want to jump to bird right now
you do not even have the proper data
pipeline yet they had mislabeled
examples let's create the proper data
pipeline correct let's use nas model for
the next one year and let's use 10 five
these five moderators to continuously
improve on the data which is come to
continuously label the hard ones and
keep on reviewing reviewing these
nibbase results And then ultimately you
will will will be having enough data so
that model can be trained. So it's very
very important for anybody in the world
to actually have a simple first do not
get to the complex yet understand the
meaningless but requires huge amount of
data to get trained.
So there was a one fintech startup who
wanted to predict who defaults on loans.
So what they did they literally sketched
a 10 layer neural network in their first
meeting right literally a 10 layer. So
the the way the complexity works let's
say you have xx inputs then you have one
layer second layer third layer all the
way around to the third layer which was
getting to an output whether the person
will buy your loan or not right this is
an entire of course is not a right
neural network diagram but I then they
designed this they came to me for the
auditing purposes then what really ended
up happening they were like okay I asked
them this very simple question it is
based on this what is your baseline do
you know what is the worst your model
will perform. They said okay I don't
know the worst. So what I said let's
let's let's do one thing. We will
predict whether if somebody will default
or not if their credit score is less
than 6600 otherwise we will say it's
it's a no default. What happened that
with that simple score of just looking
at the credit score and giving that rule
your accuracy was 71%.
Then what you what then what what they
did they actually introduced logistic
regression with eight features including
that credit cutoff rule the accuracy
increase was 79% where they use logistic
regression to improve the um accuracy
what they did they shipped in just 3
weeks now if they were to build this
entire neural networks you don't have
enough data neural networks are very
sensitive to data if you don't have the
right data if you have data has a lot of
problems which you have seen if any of
the thing comes in you won't be able to
build it. It will take months to build
it. The key point is that we should be
able to simple first ship it, measure it
and then optimize it. That's it. You
cannot optimize what you have not
shipped. I always tell this word you
cannot optimize what you have never ever
shipped. So keep it simple. Get the
infrastructure right for the first
launch and then eventually go ahead and
launch it. Right? So what what I say
first build which is simple
then ship see how it performs which is
measure and what based on the
measurements you optimize so people
would be already using it you're just
optimizing on what people using it and
that's what also we give we used to get
a lot of advice at least do start the
work man if you don't even search for
the right thing you won't be able to do
it rightly so
that's what we mean by Um that's what
this whole lecture will be about what is
workout right so our first goal is today
we are going to learn our critical
skills so let me be specific about what
I mean h by h so the first one is start
with a simple baseline function now
baseline model with the what what does
it mean it's like oh this is just 100
line function is simple it I mean pretty
pretty simple like one line of code
simple we'll start with super simple
Simple for example image classification.
Image classification we'll let's say we
want to predict we want to build a
baseline for it. How we will build
predict the majority class for
everything. Let's say
if we have any docs cast doc docs photos
only we'll just predict the everybody
has a everybody's a dog. We'll get a
good accuracy there. It's 70 70 80%. So
that baseline will tell us that at least
okay we will ship it and then we'll
optimize. That's the worst which we can
go. Think of it like that. That's the
starting point. Now let's keep on
optimizing based on the issues which we
keep on seeing. For example, let's say
that you have that you want to do a
sentiment analysis of a particular
sentence. So what you do? You count the
positive words minus the negative words
and that's your baseline. So if you
cannot explain your baseline to one
single sentence, it's not simple enough.
Create a baseline. Even predicting
something random will give you a good
accuracy at some point.
Then what we will do? We will turn our
existing huristics into features. So
every product already has rules. Maybe
they are in the code, maybe they are in
someone's head. What you do? You use you
particularly use them. So let's say
there is an existing rule. So let's say
example from a job board right. So
recommend jobs within 50 kilometer of a
user location. So there's one uh company
who actually suggest you some jobs
right. So there are existing huristics
you can say that okay nearby. So what it
will do it will recommend jobs within
the user location by just asking the
user's location. Right? So what you do
you turn that particular recommend jobs
within particular user location. You
turn that into a feature for for example
distance kilometer as a feature itself.
Then what you there's another existing
rule in the business context. The
business context boost jobs posted in
last 7 days. So you can convert that
boost job post in the last 7 days into
an ex in into an existing feature for
example days since posted. So location
if this low if it is a less location
then it will be recommended it will be
acting like a feature. If it is latest
post you also it it will be converted
into um feature then let's say if the
comp what the company does if any
company has a 4.5 plus rating it
recommends that so what you do you have
company rating as a feature itself. So
what you do you convert existing
huristics into features which you want
to go ahead with.
So you are particularly if you
understand you're talking to the domain
knowledge guy and asking him what
qualifies for example you you want to
build a system which qualifies whether a
student will get a job or not or
basically pass I mean hiring solution AI
hiring where an AI takes a looks at the
resume and then goes ahead. So what you
do you go to expert resumeum in HR of
that particular company ask a set of
questions and convert those questions
into a features which can be fed into an
AI model so that it can build up a rule
to pass or not pass. So that's why
domain knowledge is very important into
this space.
Avoid premature complexity. We will come
to that. What does it mean? It really
means let's use transformer now because
transformers are hot right now. Let's
assembles five models on day one. Let's
build a custom architecture. Let's do a
hyperparameter tuning with 1,000 trials.
These are all premature. You are it is
not mature enough to be there right now.
What's not premature? Let's make sure
our data pipeline does not have
duplicates. Let's verify we can actually
serve predictions in under 1,00 100
milliseconds. Let's check if our
features look the same in the training
and production. These are the necessary
and not premature thing.
Then measure training serving skew so
the inputs get the same score which is I
told you right now so that your thing
gets same both the ways.
What does TLM stands? I keep on saying
What does TLM stands? I keep on saying think,
learn,
measure.
So TLM loop for first model. So what
does it mean?
It means observe, explain, build and
reflect. So it's like let's say in the
observe phase. So what you do? You look
at the current system. Observe the
current system and the data. So you look
at the current system and say that
there's one example of let's say that
you're building a resume screening
system. So what when you're building
this rumé screening system you look at
the current systems and say that okay
recruiters manually review 500 rums
every day. Then what you do you look at
the data and you say that you already
have 50,000 past rums with higher and no
higher label where the recruiter was. So
you have 50,000 labels.
Then what you do you look at the quirks
that 30% of the résumés are PDFs that
need parsing 10% of the typos in the key
fields recruiters have spent 15 seconds
on an average there might be something
biased towards something right so you
also need to figure out the biases they
have implicit rules for example
autoreject if the college if if there's
no college degree or required college
degree for the senior roles so you
observe the current system and the data
and then you look at the quirks of what
can go
Right? So what you do you do you don't
build anything you just build you just
observe what you are seeing then because
you're building this resumeum screening
system you go to the next step which is
define what possible risks might be
there we might discriminate based on
name gender if we are not careful and if
if you do this lot of big cases can
happen so you should never that's a big
risk right you should not say
I'll not speak but we should not
I'll not speak but we should not discriminate
Now what does good means? Good means we
catch 90% of the candidates
recruiters would love to interview while
filtering out 50% of the noise. So
basically we should be able to nicely
give to the interviewers a nice
candidates to review. Now what bad
means? Bad simply means that we reject
qualif what is what can be bad to us bad
to our model that we reject qualified
candidates or we let unqualified
candidates going to our interviewer to
talk to right.
So you explain such things, explain the
risks, explain the bats, you you put
some constraints. For example, the
latency should be must process a rumin
under a second and it should also
explain to the recruiters that why we
have selected this particular rum so
that if anything goes wrong, the
recruiters can get a feedback to an AI
model. So what you do, you don't do
anything yet. You start coding features
or anything like that. You just explain
what you're doing to do by analyzing the
risks and what good and what doesn't
good means.
And then you have the build phase. So
after observing after analyzing the
risks good and bad you go ahead and
build it. You build a smallest baseline
which you can explain in single word.
When building a rum screening system you
can say keyword match on required
skills. So count how many times the rumé
mentions Python, Java and machine
learning. Right? So if the count is
greater than the three then you pass to
recruiter else filter. If it has
master's degree into the particular
resume then go ahead. So what does this
give you? This gives you something
baseline which gives you some accuracy.
Now what does it helps? It gives you an
end toend pipeline. PDF goes into the
text which is parsing. text goes into
score via the simple baseline thing and
then you get a decision.
Correct? So you don't you don't build
the perfect model. You build the
smallest thing that just works. We don't
need to work something that might not
work and then you reflect with real
matrix users and then keep on improving
the pipeline with the better scores
the pipeline with the better scores again.
Okay.
Okay. Now
we have another we have another example
which you can see from the which is
fraud which is fraud detection. Now
fraud detection what does it mean? You
observe let's say you want that you want
to build a fraud detection system. So
you observe that currently we are using
the rule that flag if any transaction is
more than $1,000. That's that that's
where we are saying that okay it might
be a fraud. Then we explain for example
too many false positives. What is going
wrong that rich people are miss we are
letting rich people go. Basically we are
not giving loans to the we are we are
dissatisfying rich people but we are
missing small frauds. So we are able to
explain stuff what is good what is bad.
Then what you do you build the simplest
baseline which is logistic regression
with amount which is merchant type and
the time of the day right and then you
reflect this. So recall which was using
that huristic rule where the rule was
just flag you the transactions greater
than $1,000 it improved from $20 to 20
percentages to 55 percentages but
precision was still low so you improve
on top of it. So it's continuously
you're trying to improve and iterate but
still you are not trying to do anything
big stuff. So every time you go ahead
it's always about finding the right
thing at the right point of time. Then
what you do your baseline is your
reference point. So anywhere you should
have a reference point that is your
baseline which you'll always refer to
improve upon. Correct? Every time you
have a a reference point. So whenever
you do something next you must beat the
accuracy of your base baseline. Now you
have this here. Now whenever you improve
on top of it, you should be able to beat
at least the accuracy of this as well as
the accuracy of the second baseline
which you have created.
So if you cannot beat a very very stupid
simple thing, your fancy model whatever
you using will not be worth it.
So for example, I give you a very simple
example that you want to that you want
to build a simple email spam detection
system. So what you do the current rule
might be you observe and then you say to
the people okay your current rule is
block if the sender is on blacklist
otherwise allow everything. So precision
is that 100%. When we block we are
always right. Which is baseline says
precision is 100% when we block we are
always right. But recall here is we've
only catch 50% of actual spam. Maybe I'm
not blacklisted but just I'm able to
catch 15% of it.
Now false positive rate would be that
never block a good email. We are never
blocking the good email. So that's the
measurement of the baseline. So your
precision while building it
is 100
recall is 15 and false positive rate
where we are not removing any good email
is 0%. So this is your baseline
is 0%. So this is your baseline measurement.
So your model must beat this your
whatever new you going to work it should
improve here the recall.
So what do you do? You simply make a
simple spam detection system that works.
Now we go to another example. Let's say
five you you want to build a customer
churn prediction system. Let's say 5% of
the customer churns each month which is
that's your data. So what you do is just
5% out of 100% just 5%. So what you do
you simply say predict no churn for
you simply say predict no churn for everybody.
Okay. When you say when you predict no
churn for everybody whatever comes in
your baseline is predict no churn for
everybody. So your your accuracy is 95%
because only 5% is people who are
churning right? So you can be wrong at
5% but 95% of the time people are not
churning. So your accuracy is 95%. So
see how misleading it can be
right recall on churners which is 0%.
Because we never catch anybody who will
churn because we are saying just say no
churn to everybody. It is just 5%.
Right? But the precision
we cannot do anything with it. So
basically it shows that it shows you
that accuracy is a terrible metric here
because we say only 5% of the user
chance right based on the data. So you
just say that okay we have we have got
95% accuracy. But does it explains well?
Of course not. It forces you to focus.
So because it is a minority class, you
focus on the improvement of the recall
rather than just the accuracy.
So here we're doing nothing. We're
saying hey it will churn early. Sorry,
it will not churn. We're assuming it
will not churn. So we focus on the
recall part of it.
So what you should do your model first
predict churn for 10% of the users and
catch 40% of the actual churners. And
that's 40% recall which is massive
improvement. So you come from 0% to 40%.
So that can be one of the examples of
building a simple baseline. So you start
off with something and you know where to
improve. Here you need to improve the
recall. Here you need to improve the
recall. You can see how accuracy can be
terrible matrix here. So that's why
baseline definition is very very
baseline definition is very very important.
Same goes with another example of house
press predictions, content
recommendation. So in house price
prediction, what you do, you're
predicting house price in a city. So the
baseline can be predict a particular
mean for every house. So your mean
absolute error can be $1,000 $120,000.
Then you have another baseline option
where you mean price by neighborhood. So
whatever the neighborhood goes in. So
what you do you pick up the best
baseline and then what you do you simply
go ahead and then try to build a model
that actually have a less me which is
mean absolute error or mean square
error. So build a baseline build on top
of it
which is baseline gives a trustworthy
behavior like in this case we cannot
rely on accuracy in this case we cannot
rely on precision right so trustworthy
behavior and matrix which we should be
focusing on
so what can be our first model choice
your first model has one job I'm going
to be very very clear. It has to be easy
to train. It has to be easy to debug and
it has to be faster to deploy in hours
especially into the current state. It
should not be the most accurate version
which you'll be building. It should not
be most uh what do you call
state-of-the-art. It should be easy so
that you can pass easy to train debug
things and then serve the models as
things and then serve the models as well.
So what can be first set of tasks? You
can use a logistic regression or you can
use a linear for any tabular tasks for
classification logistic for uh
regression linear so that you have the
baseline and that's why you know I have
spent 10 hours teaching linear
spent 10 hours teaching linear regression
because and and and two hours maybe
teaching decision trees because if you
know what regression is you'll be
knowing almost everything because that's
the fundamental of learning started. But
here we go. You start with something
super simple, correct? So you start with
super simple, correct? So you start with it
logistic regression or linear for
tabular tasks. Then what you end up do
then then you then then then you can
actually go ahead and say okay you you
can use a small gradient boosted trees
for ranking or risks. Then what you do
you can do small as a starting point if
the data is thin. If the data is thin
then you can do this small class simple
rules. Right? So for a so I'll take one
rules. Right? So for a so I'll take one example
of thin data thing. So let's say you're
launching a new product category. You
have 200 examples of returns from the
beta test only 200. So what you do you
don't want to build any ML model. You
don't have enough data. So what you do
you simple rule based on if the price is
greater than $100 and electronics
predict 15% return rate and if the
clothing predict 25% return rate. So you
don't because you just have 200
examples. So you just build a simple
rule which might not which might will
work based on the business context and
then consider that as a first model
choice but once you have a good good
amount of data you should be able to go
ahead with that. Then what you do you
simply go ahead keep the features super
duper simple so that you can actually be
able to
uh understand or verify lot of
pipelines. Okay. So these are the few
first few few first model choice. What I
want from you is I want you to view that
lecture notes what we have prepared. We
have given several examples of um uh
several other things which is uh
examples of predicting loan defaults.
But because I've been speaking a lot on
this, it is pretty easy that you easy to
train, easy to debug, fast to serve
models. That's all what you need.
Infrastructure before cleverness very
few people know about it.
And this is the slide that will save you
months of pain because most teams get
there backwards. They spend forever
tuning their model to be 2% more
accurate. But when they but they cannot
even get their
data pipeline running without crashing
it out. And what does it means that
let's say that there is an e-commerce
company building a recommendation model.
Now they had 10 million user sessions in
their data warehouse. What they did the
training script was loading only 50,000
rows. What? Why? Because there was a
small bug in a SQL query, right? And
they trained a model for 3 weeks on this
particular 50,000 because they had 10
millions. So model performed terribly in
the production because they had a small
leakage in the problem. So what I
suggest train a simple X, deploy it and
make sure there is no so for focus on
building the right infrastructure.
Define good and bad. Integrate the model
into app live or precomputed. See how it
is working where it can be fixed. So do
not think about forever in tuning the
model. Fix your good and bad. Integrate
the model into live and precomputed
stuffs and that's all what you need.
And only tune after the integration
works that you feel no errors are there
at least infrastructure wise. If that
makes sense to you guys.
Then we go to huristics are gold. Now
what does huristics are gold means?
Almost every product team has rough
rules as I was telling that in the pre
in in the first slide itself that which
users are clearly spammy which
transactions are clearly safe. How does
recruiter evaluate a particular
candidate? They have a some set of
rules. Try to incorporate that rule at
least as a feature not as a product um
whole model but at least as a feature.
For example, if the recruiter says if
the person if if if I look at a rum if
the person does not includes masters
into their resume I reject that thing.
So you if the person include master's
degree yes or no yes or no simple as
that your simple word there we will use
them anyway in by creating a new feature
into that there itself
so this is one example another one is
use rules to smooth ML transition keep
domain intuition
so you should be that the way I was able
to smoothly do it for example let's say
always block blacklisted sender domain
always block blacklisted sender domain correct
So you can add a huristic store correct.
So if the email contains lot of negative
words that's that's how a domain would
domain guy I mean expert guy would be
able to say that this email is wrong.
Right? So you ask the domain experts who
are whoever and even you think about it.
So the rule is almost always right. Use
it as a hard prefiller. If the rule is
decent but not perfect, you can convert
its output into a feature and let the
model learn when to trust us. So for
example, when I say when the rule is
always right, for example, if the
customer has blacklisted a particular
customer, that's a rule. He does not
wants to receive that email. That's a
always right, but there's at a times
where where we where we are not 100%
sure, right? person
uh um I mean you add a huristic score it
it the rule is decent but not always
correct. So you can add a set of as a
feature itself like in this case which
you have added 0 1 0 1 0 1. So your
model will go ahead and learn it.
So four ways to use the heristics
process pre-process a very strong which
is blacklisted senders include the score
as a feature in the model start raw and
refine later which is our formal
statements which you're making. So let's
get let's let's try try to do a simple
example let's say you are building a
ranking rule as a feature. Suppose
search ranking today uses a rule as
score equals to keyword o overlap plus
freshness bonus.
Okay. So for version number one which is
a rule score that that is a rule. So for
version number one we'll keep this as a
rule to try out. Then what we will do we
will re um retain rule as a feature
which is rule score. Then we'll add
features like click through rate by
query category. Then what we'll do we'll
train a simple model to learn weights on
top of this rule score.
Then what we'll do we'll smooth handover
from rules into ML with a roll back
path. So this rule will act like a roll
back path if something goes wrong into
the ML. So if the model misbehaves we
can always go back and click through it
which is the our formal rates.
Now when we talk about the premature
complexity premature complexity as as I
was saying in the first session I mean
learning goals itself is the biggest
enemy that you try to follow the trend
for example let's use transformer
because transformer seems hot now let's
use deep neural network so that you you
should be able to do stuff very well or
complex assemblings at the start don't
do that you won't be able to know that
where do I start always start with a
very simple model with clean matrix the
baseline which you're ing stable serving
so that nothing breaks in the production
and then keep on iterating and fixing it
every single time
and have a neutral first launch. Now, so
for some teams your first launch is not
meant to beat current matrix by 20%. It
is meant to say that this system works.
I was telling you an example of second
brain that this system works. Now let's
iterate and keep on improving. Show that
scores are stable. we are not freaking
things out in the production and then
build the confidence between the data
and the business team so that that's why
I said investors loved it when we said
that it will work we just need to put
money there's no question it will not
money there's no question it will not work
work right
and then we have an another one which is
model give different scores for same
input offline versus online That's what
skewess means. So different
pre-processing code. For example, what
it's seen in training sees completely
different in production. For example,
the input which it has to receive
between 0 to 1 which it got trained in
between 0 to 1, it got in the 1,00. So
we forgot some pre-processing thing. So
there's a missing features. We have the
wrong model file. We have different
feature logic. And this is very very
common in production. Very common. So
it's very dangerous because it kills the
trust that you instantly think that it
doesn't works. It actually works like a
doesn't works. It actually works like a charm.
So there are certain tests which we do
before for checking those things which
is golden inputs test which is send
stored tests examples through both parts
so that you fix examples get identical
stores in the train and serve so that
you can see that both uses the same
thing. So golden input test. Then you
have the feature parity. Compare your
mean, standard deviations or histograms
both offline or online. Then you use the
same pre-processing method. Reuse the
scaling bin ages what you have done in
training and serving. And then do not
change it. Do not retrain something in
while ser while serving. Then you have
the deterministic check which is confirm
model file version matches and training
logs which is another examples and it is
very common which we have talked a lot
in our previous sessions as well. Now
there can be a skew from pre-processing.
So in training you standardize tenure
using train mean and variance and then
what you do the engineer who was serving
recomputes mean and variance on live
data every hour. Technically what you'd
standardize in training was in the
existing data but the guy is doing the
same thing which is mean and variance
only. You might you might you might be
thinking that's okay but the guy is
doing something on live traffic. So the
of course you'll get a different
results. So what you do whatever you use
as a stats
while training if something missing
value comes in do not recomputee stuff
use the same thing into the serving
itself until you're able to retrain. But
log this thing, log your life traffic
stuff but then retrain it. So that's
what in serving the engineer will
compute different. So the model sees
standardized values that is not what it
was trained on. So what you do you fix
training mean and variance as part of
the model artifacts and that's what the
word artifacts comes into the play. Very
very important. So let's say that you
trained a model M and then you whenever
you used to fill the data you filled
with mean standard deviations while
surveying you use these artifacts
not new ones use the same artifacts
while predictions if any missing values
comes into play I hope that makes sense
so that's what artifact means a lot of
people confuse artifacts is nothing but
whatever model which we produce or
trained on and uh not a proper
definition I want to give to the
artifact people have a different
different and I was working in a company
like artifact in 2020 for building large
scale customer organization systems
so another mistake which I see in the
data pipeline or the model suppose
you're building
um a ranking model for content so the
pipeline only keeps recent items and
delete older items so the model then
sees mostly items that got some
interaction it never sees the very bad
content content the users ignored. So
what it did it see the people what
people liked but never the one what. So
we say know look at what good it is. So
we were building a system. So we said
okay we will find all the charts which
are extremely good in sales. So one of
our guys stood up and said that okay the
model will see everything good but man
can we also have the bad one. So that
model knows what what not to do. So
always have this particular thing that
model thinks almost everything is at
least okay will not think it's bad at
least okay because you silently removed
the bad items from the training. So
always check that your pipeline keeps
the data that represents the reality
including both negatives and boring
including both negatives and boring examples
and then you once you have that you
build a scoreboard. Now one main
business matrix the north star which we
are always calling the northstar matrix
a few guard rails what is the offline
matrix we want to do so every time you
change something every time you add a
new feature you log these numbers for
every single version
very very important and you know what
there are tools who does it for you so
you don't have to code it from scratch
that's why there are ML tools see I'm
not teaching you any ML tools these
There's common standard things which you
should know that a particular tool
should have. If the tool does not have
don't don't learn it.
So put the baseline production and start
logging data in matrix. Then train a
simple model using that data what you
have logged including baseline scores as
features if possible like huristics
which you talked about. Then what you do
you use golden inputs to prove basically
skewess checks. Then what you do you run
an AB test that sends some traffics to
the model so that if it is stable
improves the matrix promote it but keep
the baseline available as a roll back
the baseline available as a roll back option
a baseline a simple path that works out.
So we'll do one worked example.
So for email spam your simple thing can
be if the sender domain is in blacklist
block else allow everything. Okay,
that's your baseline. So that is that as
acts like a roll back path baseline that
anything goes wrong in the model, we'll
come back to this. That gives some
baseline score ladder. Then your first
model features can be whether it is a
blackfield flag or not zero or one or
not. What is a sender domain frequency?
What is the frequency of that? What is
the subject length? What is the keyword
count that can be understood from the
model? Right? Because you have already
logged a lot of stuff. You'll be able to
get these features first model features.
Then you train the model which is
machine uh machine learning models. Then
you do your checks which is golden email
scored identic identically offline and
online latency plus error rate guard
less. Correct? So your golden set of
1,000 examples ensure offline and online
scores match exactly. So if you if we
see more spam
blocked same or fewer we have a valid
v1. If something goes wrong we put back
to our back thing. So if something goes
wrong in the model, we come back to our
baseline here itself.
Then the same we have for the churn.
Baseline will be predict no ch for
everybody. Then it can be your first
model features can be these features
when you logged it. Retrain some shallow
tree. Then checks the matrix on the
parity and the skeess check. See if it
improves. If yes, but have this as a
roll back. But if yes, deploy but have
something as a roll back. And then in
the V2 you see okay what can be what can
we get a new features from the first
model features
if that makes sense to you guys.
So what is definition of done for first
models. So pipeline runs end to end and
is testable so that it goes from data
pipeline feature pipeline all the way
down to the monitoring pipeline
monitoring step. So it runs and it is
testable and it works. So data flows
from source to features to model to
products without going inside. Golden
inputs get identical scores offline and
online. So that we are we know that
nothing is whatever we have uh artifacts
used in the training exactly being used
in the serving.
Scoreboard of matrix is live for every
version and for every version there is
one roll back plan exists and if we are
easy to execute and if any of these are
not easy I mean missing then you are
missing something and you should be able
to at least do these four steps so I
want you to do this inclass activity
pair up choose one product write a
baseline rule that numbers to track take
any domain you're in list two
heruristics and how to turn that into a
simple feature Write in a simple plain
English and convert this smoothly into
the ML features. Name your first model
in the features. Describe two training
servings and share a go for V1 plan.
This is a template which we will use for
coding it out things and this is your
homework if you want to do.
So basically
it is nothing new we have learned.
Frankly speaking, we are just trying to
standardize and learn one single concept
every single lectures because that will
build your very very interesting aspect.
So in the next session what we will do
is we will try to
learn a little bit go ahead and learn
about the next thing that how do we
connect this to our model. So we from
this section you only need to remember
four things. Start simple. You use
baseline. Use existing rules as a bridge
into ML. Don't create new stuff. Prove,
train and serve parity with golden input
so that you don't change what you have
done in artifact. Artifacts are same.
Then you keep your baseline around as a
safety net. Something goes wrong. So you
slowly slowly we are going ahead. So
right now we learned about simple steps.
Now we'll go ahead and learn about how
do we monitor deploy lot of things left.
We are just in few I think fourth or
fifth lecture.